Get the latest news and videos for this game daily, no spam, no fuss.

Some of the features currently exclusive to the PC version of Grand Theft Auto V are headed to consoles, Rockstar has revealed.

In a Q&A published on its website, Rockstar addresses a number of fan questions, as well as requests to bring PC features on consoles. These include the Rockstar Editor, the powerful video-editing tool that fans have already used to create some fantastic videos. Rockstar said it's working on a version of the editor for current-gen platforms that we should be seeing in the next few months.

"The Rockstar Editor is an advanced tool requiring additional processing power so it would not be compatible with GTA V on the older systems, but we are currently working on a version tailored for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 consoles--and we hope to release that sometime this summer, or as soon as it is ready," Rockstar said.

Another current PC-exclusive is a radio station called The Lab, which features new music not available on consoles. Rockstar revealed this will be making the transition from PC to not just Xbox One and PS4, but Xbox 360 and PS3 as well. The new station will be added "in a forthcoming title update."

Console owners hoping to listen to their own music collection in-game while playing are out of luck, unfortunately, as technical constraints will keep that a PC-only option.

"The GTA V PC Self Radio experience that plays your personally curated playlist of MP3s in the game as a fully featured and properly integrated radio station just wouldn't technically be possible on the consoles as it requires more than the consoles allow at this time," Rockstar explained.

GTA Online's heists are a great way to make cash, but some players have found themselves running out of things they want to buy. For those people, Rockstar is working on "another update coming soon that will feature some very cool new toys for you to enjoy and flaunt with your ill-gotten gains." The screenshot above is said to be a tease of what's to come.

As for more heists, that's not something we can expect to see in a hurry. "[P]lease understand that Grand Theft Auto Online Heists were a tremendous undertaking so it's not the sort of thing where we can easily create and publish additional heists like other job modes and missions," Rockstar said. "We are, however, working on other cool updates for GTA Online that you can expect over the coming months."

The Q&A also touches on single-player mods in the PC version, which Rockstar says it is not banning players for using.