Trump invited religious persecution survivors to the White House and sat in the middle with his back towards all of them so he could have the best angle for the photographer. He obviously didn’t listen to his staff when they tried to prepare him for who would be there and why because when Iraqi-Yazidi Nobel laureate Nadia Murad told him of the brutal treatment she and her family endured at the hands of ISIS, Trump just sort of sat there like a lump on a porcelain log. She told him that ISIS had killed her mother and 6 brothers. His response? “Where are they now?” Nadia replied, “They killed them. They are in the mass graves in Sinjar.” Trump nodded his head as if to say, “interesting.”

Disinterested. No empathy. No understanding of her extreme pain.

He was only interested in why she got a Nobel Peace Prize. She was captured, tortured and repeatedly raped by ISIS fighters. She lost her entire family to mass genocide and has devoted her life to fighting for others. “Oh really, is that right?’’

Fucking rude idiot.

She pleaded with him to help her people and all he could do was nod like he was listening and look straight ahead. He couldn’t even have a proper face to face meeting with her.

Rude lazy spoiled brat.

Republican hypocrite fun fact: Kevin McCarthy says there weren’t that many people chanting “send her back!” at Trump’s MAGA rally. He said that Trump tried to stop them and that he never mentioned the 4 congresswomen by name which is total documented bullshit but he said it anyway.

Congresswoman Ilhan Omar flew back to Minnesota and was met by constituents at the airport chanting, “Welcome home Ilhan! Welcome home Ilhan!”

The judge who let the teenager off who had raped a girl, filmed it and posted it online because he came from a good family has resigned.

Republicans and the idiots who vote for them don’t know the difference between socialism and communism. They use both words interchangeably as if they mean the same thing to make themselves look as smart as the booby blondes on Fox News.

70 real Christians got arrested at the Capitol. They were there to protest Trump’s treatment of immigrants at the border. Among them were nuns and priests. The evangelicals were outside screaming at immigrants to go back to their countries.

“We have to stop throwing scripture at Republicans when addressing their callousness at the border. They are unmoved by their hypocrisy.” — Bakari Sellers

How many evangelicals would still identify as Christians if they didn’t believe that middle eastern Jesus looked like Brad Pitt?

Martha McSally, the Republican senator in Arizona who was handed the job after she lost the election for the other seat, wouldn’t answer reporters when they asked her about Trump’s mob “send her back” chants. She’s up for re-election in 2020. Send her back home, Arizona.

“The most troubling realization of the last 3 years: It’s not that Trump’s a racist. It’s that nearly half the country loves him BECAUSE he’s a racist.” — Bryan Behar

Things have gotten so bad in Congress that a priest did an exorcism on the House floor and prayed to cast out all spirits of darkness.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel ripped Trump a new one for undermining “America’s strength” after he told 4 Democratic congresswomen of color to “go back” to their home countries. She said she was going to distance herself from him and stand in solidarity with the women who were attacked. That’s a powerful gesture from the leader of the country who gave the world Hitler.

What is the end game for the Republican party? One party rule? Civil War? Take over the world? Or are they just going to roll with whatever Trump does until they roll right off a cliff?

Let it roll.

Support the Daily Crime Report on Patreon!

For a copy of the Mueller Report, click here.

For a list of attorneys giving legal analysis about the imploding Trump presidency on Twitter, click here.

For the best journalists to follow on Twitter, click here.

For straight news, check out these reliable sources on Twitter.

The Daily Crime Reports are being published as “quarterly reports” (three month groups) as part of “The Treason Chronicles” on Amazon for Kindle. To purchase one or more quarters, click here.