HabboKujhh

“Habbo” means every and “Kujhh” means thing in a local language. Means, everything is present in me, with me and for me. My grandmother always says this whenever someone comes to her with any scarcity or complaint. I had to spend more money on the candles than her birthday cake last week. And taking into account the fact that she is able to be happy even at an age where most people are just gossiping into the lives of other people, I think taking this simple phrase might make us more humble and content.

Everything is whole and complete if you believe.

It is the most basic law of nature that whatever you call, you attract it. Different people put it in different ways and might define the energy which makes all this happen with terms that might seem synonymous to ‘light’, ‘nature’ or ‘God’. I am not talking about believing in God or something else but the belief that whatever you believe, becomes a part of you.

Photo by Joel Mott on Unsplash

My mentor always says that, “ To believe in miracles, you need an irrational mind.” And this philosophy of HabboKujhh is quite similar. You might not have a home to live in but the idea of being whole might provide you a job that provides good shelter as well.

What it does not mean ?

Everything is whole simply means that you are happy and satisfied with being in the moment. Nowhere it has been mentioned that a happy person does not make efforts to make a better future. So this new mindset should not be discarded with a negative excuse that this might make you more lazy and you may stop working hard. These are just excuses that bind you to an old model of thoughts which make you feel weaker. And the need to stick to that broken system will simply increase.

Some areas where you can apply it ?

In today’s busy world most people just reiterate the same thing, that they are very busy. Our words attract the same energy. If you always say that you are busy, you will never have space to do the things that you really want to do. If you think that you do not have the time and energy to do anything then don’t do it. Don’t replay that same old tune.

I am easy, not busy.

Plant this happy thought that everything is amazing. You have all the time and energy to enjoy the moments you live for. And, you will live a wonderful life.

I promise.