HCFSE stands for “high-cannabinoid full spectrum extract”. These extracts are known for their high concentration of cannabinoids and terpenes. The “ entourage effect “ theory claims that full-spectrum cannabis is more effective than cannabis isolates. In short, cannabinoids work better together, as a synergistic chemical effect. This is why many cannabis oil producers, cannabis users, vapers, etc. are very interested in HCFSE.

What is HCFSE?

HCFSE is a hash oil that contains all plant cannabinoids, terpenes, and flavonoids. According to the entourage effect, cannabinoids, terpenes, and flavonoids act synergistically. Furthermore, this theory claims that terpenes and flavonoids also have medical properties.

It’s more difficult to process HCFSE than cannabis isolates such as THC or CBD isolates. Most of HCFSE producers get rid of unwanted components such as lipids and wax.

High-cannabinoid full spectrum extract are usually sold in the form of crystals although there are also oils that resemble some sort of granulated honey oil.

HCFSEs are very high in THC and/or CBD, sometimes reaching up to 90% of THC content. The difference between HCFSE and cannabis isolates is that HCFSE keep terpenes and flavonoids that aren’t present in cannabis isolates. Therefore, THC HCFSE is both excellent for medical and recreational use.

Full spectrum extracts are intended to contain all therapeutic compounds found in cannabis. Cannabis plants contain more than 400 compounds, many of them, with potential therapeutic properties.

In addition, HCFSE contains cannabinoids in their acidic forms (if it’s not decarboxylated). Cannabinoids in their acidic forms may have potential therapeutic properties (however, we still need more research to know more about their therapeutic properties).

Why are HCFSE Getting so Popular?

Cannabis isolates contain small quantities of terpenes and flavonoids. However, HCFSE, are much higher in both terpenes and flavonoids as well as cannabinoids. In other words, HCFSE are more complex than cannabis isolates. This makes HCFSE very interesting from both a medical and recreational standpoint.

Moreover, many people believe full-spectrum cannabis or high-cannabinoid full spectrum extract products have more medical properties than cannabis isolates.

With high-cannabinoid full spectrum extracts you will get minor cannabinoids that are not found in cannabis isolates such as CBD or THC isolates. For instance, cannabinoids such as CBG or CBN have anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antibacterial properties.

What Are the Methods to Produce it?

High-cannabinoid full spectrum extracts can be found in crystallized and sugared forms. There are both solvent and solvent-free extraction methods. For example, two common extraction methods are CO2 extraction (solvent-free method) and butane (solvent extraction method). From all extraction methods, CO2 extraction is perhaps the most popular method as it is a very effective solvent-free method.

Solvent extraction methods employ a solvent such as ethanol, butane, and other solvents to separate the trichomes from the plant material.

However, nowadays the most popular extraction methods are the ones known as “solventless”. These extraction methods are more popular because they don’t use solvents that might contaminate the plant material. In addition, these extraction methods are very effective.

The most popular solvent-free extraction method is C02 extraction. This method uses supercritical CO2, which is CO2 in fluid state that has both gas and liquid properties.

High-Cannabinoid Full Spectrum Extracts: Conclusion

HCFSE or high cannabinoid full spectrum extracts have more therapeutic properties than cannabis isolates. Although cannabis isolates do also contain flavonoids and terpenes, with HCFSE we get more of these compounds. This complexity of compounds (terpenes, flavonoids, cannabinoids) is interesting because of the entourage effect theory. In conclusion, that all cannabinoids, terpenes, and flavonoids work synergistically.

Full-spectrum CBD and THC extracts contain higher doses of cannabinoids such as CBG and CBN. These minor cannabinoids found in HCFSE products also have therapeutic properties.

There are both solvent and solvent-free extraction methods. However, the latter ones, especially C02 extraction methods, are the most popular ones as they are very effective and they will not contaminate the plant material with solvents.