My SO and I do projects at home. So, lucky for us, we happened to have a variety of masks laying around the house when this outbreak started to emerge. Anyone who knows me knows I am far from privileged. And yet I too worry about people giving me the ugly side-eye for inadvertently having some general grade PPE; for donning masks I bought over a year ago and deigning to go out in public.

We also have 2 (now college-age) Korean-American children. I’m regularly concerned for their well-being in the wake of growing ignorance and fear; how people could easily lash out at them, simply for how they look, when they have nothing to do with the impact this disease has had. There are many similarities to the 1918 flu (social distancing, masks, financial hardships, etc). But this time we have a 24-hour news cycle often littered with misinformation and conspiracies, and people eager to point an accusatory finger because they need someone to blame.

In an effort to help others, we’ve donated some of our PPE and made others for those in our community. My SO 3d printed hundreds of face shields, and I have learned to sew masks. Our free time, for the last 6 weeks, has been consumed with it. Still, I would be a hint humped if any of my so-called ‘friends’ stated to me in a pseudo-parental tone, outright telling me I ‘needed’ to do something with my PPE. Yeah, I get the intent behind the words, but I don’t need to do anything. I will, however, do what I can to help others without completely sacrificing my own well-being and or feel bullied into doing so. Like what they say when the plane is going down — put the mask on yourself first, then help others. You shouldn’t feel guilty for being gifted masks and your friend should have known better than to give you unsolicited orders on what you ‘needed to do’ with them. I would have assumed you kept some and given away others.

I think people need to reconsider your circumstance before they judge or make demands on what you should do with your care package. Certainly, it is one thing to be one of those jerks who drove around buying out all of the hand sanitizer and bleach and trying to resell it to others at a gross profit. It is quite another to get a care package from a loved one, abroad, and be made to feel weird about it.

It is unfortunate you felt encumbered with anxiety to the point of sleepless nights over a box of masks. But, as an abuse survivor, and someone who understands people-pleasing and anxiety, I get why you felt burdened instead of overjoyed.

I wish you the best of health and safety in these trying times.