Minneapolis, MN October 23, 2020 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ — Points North, a premier certified payroll and data compliance software company, has been named ADP Marketplace’s Sales Choice winner for 2020. This distinguished award is given to the ADP Marketplace partner that resonates most with ADP clients and prospects.

“It is a great honor to be recognized by the ADP Marketplace and their National Sales divisions,” said Nick Foucault, Director of Sales and Product Management. “At Points North, we are committed to delivering key solutions to our clients and partners. Our niche products help solve major compliance and reporting needs across North America. Our product teams are committed to continuous innovation and feature development. We are very proud of people, and thankful to be recognized by ADP Marketplace with this award.”

“Points North knows exactly how to sell their solutions. They have a deep understanding of the industries they serve, and they are able to translate complex scenarios into relatable use cases for our DMs” according to Craig Cohen, DVP and general manager, ADP Marketplace. “The team at Points North is an absolute pleasure to work with”!

This award comes on the heels of an exciting additional 2020 product launch on ADP Marketplace. ACA Reporter from Points North is now live and integrated with both RUN Powered by ADP® and ADP Workforce Now®. This robust integration helps mutual ADP and Points North clients to comply with both federal and growing state Affordable Care Act requirements. This additional product compliments the current offering of Certified Payroll Reporting, available on ADP Marketplace.

Points North is excited to be an ADP Marketplace partner and will continue to serve our mutual clients.

About Points North

For 26 years, Points North has helped companies from the small business to the enterprise levels meet their critical data reporting and compliance requirements. Their innovative products being offered are designed through extensive user research, and enhanced through ongoing enhancements. Learn more about Points North at https://www.points-north.com.

About ADP Marketplace

ADP Marketplace is a digital storefront designed to help employers create HR ecosystems for their companies using solutions from ADP and leading third-party partners, enabling companies of all sizes to extend the value of their workforce solutions seamlessly across their entire organization via a secure, single-sign-on process. Learn more on ADP Marketplace.