Photo by Viktor Hanacek from Picjumbo

Our economy has been moving toward more independent forms of work for a while now. As traditional employment scenarios have come up short in terms of pay, benefits, flexibility, autonomy, and fulfillment the freelance economy becomes more and more attractive to young people entering the workforce for the first time and experienced professionals who are no longer getting what they needed from their 9–5. Freelancing, contract work, gig work, consulting — whatever category you belong to or label you want to use — has filled this gap.

For me, it was about control and being stuck in a system that wasn’t giving me what I needed financially, personally, or professionally.

I was sick of struggling…so I stepped outside of the system and created my own.

All of the ways that work has shifted in 2020 have made me feel incredibly grateful that I already work for myself as I watch so many people lose what they thought were forever jobs or realize that their job wasn’t really giving them what they needed in the face of a global crisis.

Crises have a weird way of making you rethink your priorities.

The crises of 2020 have made many turn to independent work, whether they made the decision on their own or were forced to by necessity.

36% of the US workforce freelanced in 2020 and the number of freelancers who do it full time went up 8% from 2019*.

58% of workers in traditional settings who started working remotely during the pandemic are now considering freelancing*.

I say — join us.

There’s plenty of work to go around.

2020 has also made employers rethink their biases against using remote and freelance workers. As the traditional workforce becomes more remote, employers are more likely to start hiring independent workers**.

Freelancing is the future…and we’re more powerful together.

Just because you’re a solo-entrepreneur doesn’t mean you’re alone. Whether it is someone you know who freelances, a killer freelance blog, or an organization like Freelancers Union — there are plenty of places to go for support, help, and advice. All you need to do is ask.

Working for myself has given me a degree of freedom, satisfaction, and wealth that I never had when I was working for someone else…and I’m not alone. 75% of freelancers who left a job to go out on their own make the same or more than they did before*.

Is it always easy? No.

Working for yourself, no matter the format, comes with its own set of risks and rewards.

For me, the risks have outweighed the rewards and I have also hustled hard to make it work. But even in those moments when things are uncertain, I still know that I made the right decision because I can’t imagine ever going back to a “regular” job.