Your browser does not support HTML5 video tag.Click here to view original GIF

PETA is taking the battle against Canadian baby seal slaughter to a whole new front - World of Warcraft.

The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals would really like it if Canada would stop killing adorable little baby seals, and this weekend they're making Azeroth their battleground. This Saturday on the Whisperwind server, activists are urged to travel to the Howling Fjord zone to take on four Canadian Horde seal killers. Why Horde?

Thrall refused to ban the slaughter of seals, despite multiple requests from the Alliance to do so, because Orgrimmar stands to make a large profit from the fur.

I'm guessing this special event doesn't fall within World of Warcraft story canon, and I'm not so sure that PETA picked the correct venue for their protest. I have personally skinned thousands if not tens of thousands of animals over the course of my first rogue's career as a leatherworker, from bunnies to turtles to kittens to small, fluffy, doe-eyed animals that don't even have real-world counterparts.

I do like their overly specific instructions on how to participate, however.

* You must be in the WhisperWind realm in order to fight. Visit WorldofWarcraft.com if you need information about how to switch into this realm. * Once in the WhisperWind realm, go to Northrend, where you will find a zone called Howling Fjord, where the baby seals live on glaciers and boats float in the fjords. This will be the battleground to stop the slaughter. (Note: You must be at least a Level 70 player in order to enter Howling Fjord.) * The battle will take place on Saturday, April 11, at 1 p.m. EST.

Anyone who has reached level 70 is going to know how to transfer servers, and most likely isn't going to be too keen to pay for the service in order to participate. Also, you don't need to be level 70...you just need to know you stuff...or be a Shadow Priest.

Advertisement

They did, at least manage to not pick a PVP server for their event, which saddens me to no end. So much for audience participation.

Here's the promotional video they've put together to commemorate the event, in which Canadian Horde seal hunters sound very much like some of my neighbors here in Georgia, because everybody knows that Southern accents equal ignorance.

Help Battle Seal Slaughterers in World of Warcraft [The PETA Files]