A fine example of modern art.

Artists lead.

And the rest of the world follows them with either an ‘Aww’, or the mesmerized face when they come face to face with an artist’s creation or both. And this has been going on for centuries.

In the ancient period, we had limelights to glow the stage when a popular play by Shakespeare was being performed. Now, we have technologies that don’t require a person to step out of their bed to make a living. And the same applies to the artists- they don’t have to step out in daylight to for their work to spread out and bring them fame and the pride that follows fame.

But still, artists lead. Creators, innovators, researchers, explorers, pioneers, writers, filmmakers, musicians, these are the people that push the human race forward. From Leonardo Da Vinci to Elon Musk, we have seen people who could see the world in a way no one else could have imagined. Some of them too ahead of their time, pondering over ideas that would not be a possibility until the next 200 years.

I am talking about Nicola Tesla. Well, he’s one of many examples where we see people that were too early for this world, or the world was too primitive for them, people who were imbalanced, haunted by their own demons, but one day, they vomited gold.

Tesla’s vision of wireless electricity gave birth to the current 21st century, Steve Job’s vision of smartphones gave us the digital revolution era, Einstein’s vision of mass and energy gave us space exploration, Rowling’s vision of the magical world gave us Harry Potter, and Musk’s vision of settling over Mars, well, I am one in the queue.

Artists are visionaries. They understand the simple fact that life is short and that we get to do so fewer things in the time that is given to us. So, if they have a gift to create new stuff, why in the good god’s name one shouldn’t do it?

One should pursue creative endeavours in the most undisciplined, wild, irregular and violent manner as if they’re trying to catch a mad wolf. Having an imagination is a blessing, and the best way to handle a new idea is to absorb it while it's fresh and hot.