Drink more water is a top ten goal on Coach — hundreds of thousands of people have attempted it.So, with the holidays approaching, I wondered what you should put on your gift-themed wishlist. This could be your Christmas list, what you’re going to gift your over-achieving friends, or just a treat to yourself.I thought this was going to be a short post. Just get a glass and take it to the tap? Wrong.Prepare for more detail than you thought possible about the intersection of hydration gear and human augmentation (behavior science considerations at the end of the post).Here are the major issues:There’s really a surprising amount of hydration tech and I’m going to show you the best of the best below.The problem with gear is having to get it all organized before you can use it. I handle that by having separate bags for separate use cases: three fully packed bags at all times.One is for backpacking, fully loaded with stove, tent, clothes, sleeping bag, sleeping pad, tools and two forms of water purifiers. Just add Nutella and tortillas and then I’m ready to hit the trail.The other two are identical Camelbaks, but one is packed for mountain biking and the other for long road rides.For my money, the perfect hydration pak is the Camelbak Charge ($96). Over the years, Camelbak has made a number of improvements including:For most use cases, the 70 oz Charge is better than the 100 oz Volt. I had an old Camelbak 100 oz backpack for years and just felt like I was always carrying too much weight.Note, this is not a commuting bag and won’t fit your laptop. You shouldn’t need a hyrdation pack for getting to work.They key to making these bags work for you is to have them packed with everything you need. That’s the ToGo part.Here’s a good place to start for mountain biking.For road rides, the setup is very similar, only with different tubes. That might seem like overkill, but tubes are exactly the type of thing I’m going to forget to check before I head out on a ride. It’s embarrassing as hell to bum tubes off of another cyclist.People who carry water bottles around are prone to put other drinks in them. And even if you don’t, you can get growths there. I once found a colony of green mold growing at the bottom of my Brita pitcher where the supposedly filtered water lived.But water bottles are often hard to clean. Only the smallest of hands can get down to scrub the bottom of your average bottle.To solve this problem, the latest trend in water bottles is to have removable caps at both ends. This is purely to make cleaning easier.The king of these is the Cleanbottle ($15). And of course, Cleanbottles are BPA free (see, so many details to worry about). So, if you’re looking for a new everyday water bottle, this is the place to start.In the old days, I mostly opened water bottles with my teeth. I’d be biking, pull a water bottle out of the cage, and then yank the cap open with my mouth.Now there’s been an leap forward in water bottle cap technology. When you tip your bottle over, nothing spills out. But when you squeeze your bottle, you get every drop you’re looking for.The Camelbak Podium ($10) is a simple version of this water bottle that’s perfect for biking. This is my water bottle for every day rides (whereas the hydration packs above are for more epic adventures).Now it’s just squeeze and drink without ever having to pull the cap open.The Gatorade marketing arm is powerful and has warped most of what you hear about hydration.But, most people experience that Gatorade gives too much sugar with your elecrolytes. While it’s true that some sugar helps with hydration, the tradeoffs generally aren’t worth it.Too much Gatorade and you’ll be cutting off your body’s other supply of energy: fat.So, instead, try the modern version of the salt pill. Plunk one of these pills into your water bottle or hydration pack and you’ll have a ready made elecrolyte drink.The problem though is that you won’t enjoy the taste of drinking salt water. My favorite option comes from Nunn ($19). They’re slightly fruity flavored and taste great when you’re exercising. I carry a tube of pills with me and add them as needed to my bottle at water stops.I carry two filtering options with my backpacking gear.The easy one to recommend is a water bottle with a built-in filter. With this, you can scoop up trail water and then suck out clean, filtered water as you walk around. This is perfect for on-the-trail hydration, but a little too slow if you’re planning to wash dishes with it.The best of the bunch comes from OKO. They include 100 gallons of filtration capacity and a carabiner for clipping to the outside of your pack.The other option is a Steripen, which uses UV light to kill 99% of bacteria and protozoa. This is way more convenient than having to filter your water through a pump or using chemicals. Use this for purifying larger amounts of water.In picking these, of course, I considered price and quality. But more than that, I care about how or if they will be used. Not all products are built with the right behavior science.The fundamental goal of human augmentation is to combine two things, your work and an external tool (this post) to create a better version of yourself. If the tool doesn’t work, you don’t use it, or it doesn’t improve your life, then it’s useless.Here were the main considerations in the reviews above:Well, that’s more than you pronably thought anyone would ever write about hydration gear. The more work I’ve done on behavior augmentation, the more I’ve come to appreciate particular design characteristics. The advice in this post is short — buy this or that. But the rational is deep.