I am one of those people during my marriage years. Until I can’t lie anymore and put up a smile covering my depression. I was a very introverted, fearful, and anxious person. Until the tornado of courage knock on my door, and suddenly I was brave enough to ask for a divorce. I feel it in my gut.

Then the real tsunami happened and washed away my old self, old identity, and old limiting beliefs. It was a very unbearable moment.

It felt like riding an emotional, nerve-wracking rollercoaster almost every time. Because you are at war with yourself. Fighting the outside to meet the inside. You don’t really know what to do, how to feel, what action to take anymore.

Photo by cottonbro from Pexels

The Realization

Of course, it was challenging because it has gain momentum for almost 40 years. To change something that is already embedded in your DNA, hell yeah, it needs total annihilation. It is supposed to feel like the end of the world.

And oh, I like the song “The End Of The World” by Skeeter Davis. It really represents all the emotions during the dark night of the soul. If you had watched The Queen’s Gambit on Netflix, the scene when this song played, I burst into tears, not really knowing why.

It is good sometimes to really cry and feeling those emotions to honor it and then let it go gracefully.

Our Partner will always be our greatest awakener. Now I have more compassion and understanding for him more than ever. Love has evolved.

Photo by Maksim Goncharenok from Pexels

The Reborn

This is the butterfly of my journey. I believe everybody has a story to tell that can be beneficial to others. We are all relatable at some point.

Little by little, I am creating my new self and my new identity. To predict the future is to create it. I even need to re-introduce myself again to my friends. Some of them get me, and some don’t. Either way, it is not a problem.

People from your past only resonate with the old version of you that doesn’t exist anymore. They can only see things as deep as they know themselves. Some people don’t even know who they really are.

If some people don’t like you anymore, it is actually a good thing. Own your uniqueness, breathe, and let them go with love. Sometimes our truth can reflect the things that others don’t want to see in themselves.

So…It’s not about you. We are becoming a mirror and a reflection for anybody who “needs” it.