This is a true masterpiece. It’s divided into three sections where each follows a persons journey in relation to a particular organ. The apt title of the movie is defined as:

In the metaphysics of identity, the ship of Theseus is a thought experiment that raises the question of whether an object that has had all of its components replaced remains fundamentally the same object.

It’s a low budget movie that is mainly filmed with a handheld camera, a team of 2–3 in addition to the actors, and it took in total 6 years to make. It is pure. Anand Gandhi is a genius and it’s bizarre to me that this or his other movies aren’t more well-known internationally.

IMDb

8 stars

2t 20 min

2012

English, Hindi, Arabic, Swedish

Director: Anand Gandhi

Writers: Anand Gandhi

Stars: Aida Elkashef, Neeraj Kabi, Sohum Shah

Part 1 — The Eyes

Aliya become blind after a childhood illness. She is now a young adult, a photographer, and has just become fairly renowned for her art. She clicks photos only guided by the sound and uses her other senses to edit the photos, in close cooperation by her boyfriend. When she gets an eye transplant and can start to see again, her life changes drastically as her identity as a blind photographer is no longer true.

Part 2 — The Liver

Maitreya is a Jain munk living a simple life and is fighting to abolish testing on animals via the legal systems as his belief is that animals and humans should be treated equally. He’s also a renowned philosopher and we get to see some interesting conversations between himself and a teenager who is eager to debate with Maitreya. He goes through quite a personal journey when faced with the dilemma of taking medicine to save his failing liver, but which has been tested on animals, or refuse it and eventually die from liver failure.

This was my favorite part of of the movie due to the many gloriously shot scenes, purely visually, but understanding the complexity his mind must go through facing this life-depending dilemma.

Part 3 — The Kidney

Navin gets discharged from hospital after a succesfull kidney transplant made possible by an NGO who solely works with organ transplantations donated by deceased people. He is young, has a great career to has made him a lot of money, but otherwise, his life doesn’t seem to contain much else. Then his grandmother, an activist in her youth, ends up in hospital following an accident at home, and during a visit from Navin, he discovers that a man has just been admitted to the hospital with quite the harrowing history of why; a few weeks prior this poor worker had an emergency surgery to remove his appendix but when he is admitted to hospital this time it’s because one of his kidneys are missing, presumbly stolen during his appendix surgery. This kicks off Navins journey in coming to terms with the ethics around organ donation, and the relationship between the rich and the poor.

I watched Ship of Theseus over three nights just so I could savour it even more. It is a gripping movie that I think will stay with me for life, and I can’t wait to see it again and again.