How to watch Netflix on DStv?

With the new DStv Explora Ultra, subscribers get streaming apps Showmax and Netflix already installed.

The new DStv Explora Ultra allows users to watch Netflix on their TV, making it easier for existing Netflix subscriber or not. It’s the first set-top box in South Africa to allow DStv subscribers to log into Netflix, as well as other streaming apps, including Showmax, Prime Video, and also to allow new Netflix subscribers to sign up, sign into and cancel their Netflix subscription through the decoder.

What to Watch

How to Access Netflix on DStv?

Netflix is a streaming app that you’ll find in the Apps menu on the new DStv Explora Ultra. It’s not a channel on the DStv package as Netflix is one company, with its own catalogue of shows and movies, and DStv is another, separate company.

The partnership between DStv and Netflix has allowed the Netflix app a space on the decoder. This allows DStv subscribers get seamless access to all the shows and movies on Netflix directly from their decoder.

How do I sign into my Netflix account on my Explora Ultra decoder?

If you are an existing Netflix subscriber with an Explora Ultra, the process is quite easy.

All you need to do is hit the APPS button on your Explora Ultra remote, and then sign into Netflix. The same goes for Showmax, which is also accessible through the APPS button on the remote.

How do I sign up for Netflix on my Explora Ultra decoder?

Using the white APPS button on the remote, you go to Netflix and select “sign up”. Once you’ve done this, your Netflix bill will automatically be added to your DStv bill, so you don’t have to make two separate payments.

The existing payment method you use to pay for DStv will be used for paying for Netflix.

How do I add my Netflix bill to my DStv bill?

If you are already a Netflix subscriber, and sign into Netflix on the DStv Explora Ultra, you won’t be able to add Netflix to your DStv account. You will continue being billed for Netflix as you did before you signed into Netflix on your decoder.

The only way to have Netflix added to your DStv bill is to sign up for Netflix as a new user through the Explora Ultra. New users who sign up to Netflix through the DStv Explora Ultra (hit the APPS button on your remote and follow the sign-up instructions) will automatically have their Netflix bill added to their DStv bill.

But if you have a Netflix account that has lapsed and is not currently active, you can reactivate it on the Explora Ultra by selecting “Join now” on the APPS menu (again, hit that handy APPS button on the remote). Enter your existing log-in details and your account will be reactivated, with the bill automatically added to your Explora Ultra remote.

If I sign up to Netflix on the Explora Ultra, can I only watch Netflix on my TV?

No, when you sign up to Netflix on the Explora Ultra, you get the same access to Netflix that you’d get if you signed up on the Netflix website. You will also be able to stream Netflix on a smartphone, tablet or your web browser. The Explora Ultra is just a device on which to stream Netflix like any other device

How much does it cost to watch Netflix on DStv?

It costs the same as what you’d pay for a Netflix subscription if you signed up through the Netflix website. The price of Netflix will be added to your monthly DStv bill. There’s no extra fee for Netflix when you sign up on your Explora.

Do I need the internet to watch Netflix on DStv?

Yes. Netflix is a streaming video service, which means that to watch, you’ll need access to the internet. The Explora Ultra offers built-in WiFi, which means it’s very easy to connect to the internet in your home.

You will ideally want an uncapped connection because of the volume of data consumed when streaming. The recommended speeds of the connection for streaming video are as follows:

A minimum 2Mbps is recommended for SD (Standard Definition) downloads

For SD streaming, a minimum of 4Mbps

For HD (High Definition) streaming, a minimum of 10Mbps (plus connection to an HD capable TV)

For 4K streaming, which Netflix offers, we recommend checking the Netflix website for guidelines (Need a 4K-capable TV)

Also you will also be able to stream shows and movies on streaming service Showmax as well as Catch Up shows on DStv with your Explora Ultra decoder.

Happy viewing everyone