Why I’ve Made a Writing Schedule

And, why you should, too.

Photo by Estée Janssens on Unsplash

Every morning, I make a cup of coffee, take a minute or 30 for myself, then I sit down in front of my computer and write. On the weekends, that minute for myself gets longer and longer, but I still sit down and write. I write different things, fun projeects, things just for myself, things that don’t have deadlines.

For the longest time I never held a writing schedule; instead, I wrote only when I felt like it, only when the inspiration struck. Which meant that I was writing maybe 1,000 words a week.

Then, I started a blog and had to write twice a week. Then, I started writing on Medium and had to write 4–5 times a week, combined with my blog. Which may not be a lot for some writers here in Medium who churn out work daily, but for me, it’s the perfect amount.

Is it making me rich? No. Maybe, eventually, I’ll make better money off of my writing, but for now it’s all I need.

While writing when you feel inspired and excited about something is the best time to write, the words just flow and everything feels perfect, it’s not going to get you very far if that’s the only way you write. Sure, you may finish that book in 30 years and you may publish a really great article or two, but you won’t be consistent and consistency is key with everything, especially writing.

I now started to write even when I don’t want to. I’ve made myself this little schedule and I carved out time to get my writing down in the morning hours. I chose the morning because that’s when I work the best. I’m a morning person and love to get up and start the day and start banging away on any project I have in front of me. In the evenings I’m a lazy slob who doesn’t want to move from the couch even to get more snacks.

Sure, I deviate from the schedule every so often, and have some weeks where I barely write, at all. But, I’ve learned that by keeping to an actual schedule, I’m treating my passion more like actual work, and allowing myself to take it a little more seriously. It helps keep me focused on the tasks at hand, at my immediate goals, and those so far off in the future they’re shaking hangs with Chewbacca.

I may not be writing the best stuff every day (that’s what editing is for), but I’m writing. I’m getting what I need to be doing done and continuing on with my life. It helps keep me focused on my writing and lets me relax the rest of the day. Because once it’s time to leave for my short shift at work, I’m done writing for the day. If the mood strikes at 8:00pm, I’ll sit down and write, or if I’m on a deadline, I’ll sit down and write, but I won’t feel guilty about not writing in the evening because I’ve already done what was needed to be done.

Find a time that works for you.

Stick to it, no matter what. Obviously illness and emergencies and long-lost friends showing up at your door don’t count.

Keep doing it until it becomes a routine. Eventually, you’ll start seeing results, even if it has nothing to do with monetary gain.