Photo by Rob Carr/Getty Images

Right out of college everyone doubted the transition of his success to the NFL. The fact was that people only thought success only came from a traditional drop-back quarterback and not one that can use his athleticism to his advantage.

The thinking is that you can’t be both, but in fact Lamar Jackson's career completion percentage is only 2% lower than Patrick Mahomes. With Patrick Mahomes being regarded as the best quarterback in the league, that's not too bad for a “running back”. Lamar also protects the ball with never having thrown more than 9 picks. While he doesn't throw for 4,000 yards each season, it’s not his sole responsibility for his receivers to run after the catch and to make a play. He can only do so much to try and put his receivers in the best position to succeed.

While sports analysts have always been consistent with criticizing Lamar by saying he can’t arcuately throw the ball down the field. In addition using his running ability to predict a downfall in his career to the likes of RGIII (Robert Griffin III), Michael Vick, and Cam Newton. But on the same token praise and astonish over the running ability of Josh Allen and others.

Looking at the roster for the Baltimore Ravens it’s obvious it’s a defensive team with a run first mentality. With their best receiver being a tight end in Mark Andrews. Marquise brown has not lived up to his expectations of being a tremendous run after the catch receiver with his amazing speed, and Willie Snead being an average receiver with never recording 1,000 yards in a season. The team also hasn't made moves to improve their receiving room to push them over the top.

Now lets look at the top quarterbacks and their receivers. First, Patrick Mahomes has Tyreek Hill, and Travis Kelce. Seconded, Tom Brady has Mike Evans, Chris Godwin, and Antonio Brown. Third, Drew Brees has Michael Thomas, and Alvin Kamara who is a great catch passing running back. These are just a few to look at. Team success can defiantly rise and drop due to the production of who is catching the ball. For example the Houston Texans were a playoff team a year ago with aspirations of making a super bowl run. With letting go all pro receiver Deandre Hopkins the Texans have dropped all the way down to being out of playoff contention.

Imagine Lamar with Stephon Diggs, Devontae Adams, or even Deandre Hopkins, his production would skyrocket. But sadly the criticism would be the same, “Oh it’s the talent around him that's making him great” we never have the same criticism when it comes to other quarterbacks around the league. Just because you haven't seen something be done doesn't mean it can’t. Dive deeper and look beyond the surface to see who Lamar Jackson as a player actually is.