Speaker Sumitra Mahajan today said after Prime Minister Modi's statement over controversial remarks of Union Minister Sadhvi Niranjan and her apology, the issue should be treated as closed and the House should function as per rules.

"On the demand of the Opposition, I had adjourned the house for 10 minutes and also ensured that an apology be tendered by the Minister. Besides,the Prime Minister also made a statement on the advice of the Opposition.

Now, I wish that this episode should be closed and the Opposition should discuss, as per rules, the policy-related issues of the government," Mahajan told reporters after inaugurating the World Book Fair here.

Opposition had stalled working of the House earlier this week and had demanded from the Prime Minister that be removed from her post.

"It is not fair to (just) linger on with the issue. The House proceedings should move forward and if Opposition thinks that there is a flaw in some government policy then it should raise it," she said.

Referring to previous instances, the Speaker said in the past as well wrong examples were set but no apologies were tendered.

"I am not saying that such things should recur. But when the Minister has apologised, she should be given a chance," she added.

Mahajan also cautioned leaders not to use the wrong words or unparliamentary language while criticising others.

The Speaker dismissed the Opposition's allegation that she was working under some pressure and is not giving adequate time to Opposition leaders to speak on any issue.

"The Lok Sabha's register is open for all. Even if a two-member party requests to put forth its views, I ensure that they get an opportunity to speak," Mahajan said.

"During the Question Hour, if the main question was of BJP then also I give importance to Congress or CPM for raising supplementary questions. I have to give importance to all parties and if any member requests me for time, then as per rules, I will allow him/her," she said.

On the Sanskrit v/s German language controversy, Mahajan criticising leaders for giving it a political colour, said students should learn world languages but there should not be politics on teaching Sanskrit language in schools.

"While learning any foreign language, we should not forget our own Indian languages," she added.