Tis’ the Season… Best Practices for Inclusion during the Holidays!

Lots of cheer and goodwill are being spread in normal fashion, this holiday. Individuals are donating more of their money and time to those less fortunate and in need.

Yet, despite the largest of donations, there still exist insurmountable poverty and equity issues in communities all around us.

And the question remains whether these acts of kindness and gestures really have a lasting impact.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m not advocating that we stop contributing to organizations that help impoverished communities or individuals who are in need.

But what I am suggesting may require a bit of introspective thought and consideration.

Some of you may find these questions relatively easy to answer, while others may find themselves in deep thought.

Okay so here it goes…

Think about the last time you hosted a dinner party or holiday celebration of some sort.

You prepared that incredible meal, had your nicest china and glassware, the house had wonderful aromas of holiday cheer and tidings. You were ready!

Now ask yourself, “Who was present in the room at the table?”

Did most of your guest look and sound like you and if so, did you even think to invite others who didn’t?

Have you ever really given thought as to why you “unintentionally” excluded others from your party?

Now think for a moment about a few of the dinner or holiday invitations you’ve recently received and accepted over the last few weeks.

Okay, so now let’s think about the ones you’ve declined.

Focusing on the declines, who were those individuals and what did they look like?

Were they someone you simply hadn’t taken the time to get to know, even though you have been acquainted with them for several years?

Ask yourself, “Why haven’t you taken the time to get to know more about these individuals, just as you did the person you last shared a cup of coffee, tea or lunch with recently?”

Were these acquaintances from a different socioeconomic class, or a different race or culture? Maybe they had a different religion, belief system or they were simply someone with a perspective that was unlike your own?

Please know this mini exchange of informational Q&A is not at all meant to call anyone out or put another on defense. I totally get and realize that ‘we’ as human beings tend to be creatures of habit and in most cases stay within our comfort zones.

Not only is the norm or mode of operation for individuals regardless of your race, culture, religion, class etc. but it becomes a way of life for many, if we are not made aware and put to the test of doing something different.

So this holiday season, I am going to ask that you challenge ‘yourself’ to step out of that circle of comfort by learning more about that individual you’ve known for years, but ‘really’ hadn’t gotten to know; Or for you to say, “yes” to the invitation that you recently declined.

I’m convinced that it’s the sharing of experiences and the exchange of trying something new that often leads to greater growth and acceptance.

I also believe that by doing this small act, you will make more of a substantial long-term impact on our society and community than any monetary donation ever will.

So yes, still give your monetary donations and your time, but also remember to say, “YES,” to the opportunities of connecting with others on a deeper level who may not look, sound, or think exactly like you.

Be BRAVE and begin to bridge the gap in the divide.

Tis’ the Season!

Originally written and published on LinkedIn December 8, 2017