UPDATED: FX has given the green light to the first limited series under the cable network’s push in that programming area — an adaptation of Joel and Ethan Coen’s 1996 comedic crime drama Fargo.

Additionally, FX president John Landgraf announced several high-profile limited/miniseries projects in development as the genre will become a cornerstone for FX’s sibling FXM (Fox Movie Channel): Grand Hotel from Sam Mendes, about a fictional terrorist plot in Paris; Sutton, from Alexander Payne and Michael De Luca, about the infamous bank robber; Mad Dogs, from The Shield‘s Shawn Ryan, based on the British black comedy/psychological thriller miniseries; and Mayflower, from producers Paul Giamatti and Gil Netter (Life Of Pi). (See their descriptions below.)

Related: FX Officially Unveils FXX Channel To Launch In September

The Coen brothers are exec producing Fargo, which was written/executive produced by The Unusuals and My Generation creator Noah Hawley. Warren Littlefield also executive produces the project, which will be co-produced by MGM Television and FX Prods. Production will begin in the winter for a spring debut. The Fargo movie starred Frances McDormand as a pregnant Minnesota police chief who follows the trail of two bumbling criminals (Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare) hired by a car salesman (William H. Macy) to kidnap his wife. The indie earned seven Oscar nominations, winning two statuettes — for the Coen brothers’ script and McDormand’s performance. FX put the project in development in September.

Here are the network’s descriptions of the event series in development:

Mayflower

This series is an unflinching portrait of the Puritan settlers at Plymouth Colony and their uneasy alliance with the local Native Americans. The series will be executive produced by Gil Netter (Life of Pi, The Blind Side) and marks his first foray into television. Serving alongside Netter as Executive Producers are Dan Carey and Paul Giamatti (Sideways, John Adams). Doug Miro and Carlo Bernard (The Sorcerer’s Apprentice) are writing the series and executive producing. Produced by FX Productions in association with Touchy Feely Films.

Grand Hotel

In this series, an international luxury hotel in Paris turns into a hellish trap when it becomes the center of a terrorist attack. Written and executive produced by Richard McBrien (Merlin, Wallander), Grand Hotel will also be executive produced by Pippa Harris (Revolutionary Road, Jarhead), Sam Mendes (Skyfall, American Beauty), and Alain & Vassili Clert (Spiral).

Mad Dogs

Based on the British series and written by Cris Cole (Mad Dogs, The Bill), this series follows the reunion of four forty-something guys who head to Belize to visit their old school friend, when things take an unexpected and dark turn. Shawn Ryan (The Shield, Terriers, The Chicago Code) will serve as Executive Producer alongside Cole. Produced by Sony Pictures Television, in association with Left Bank.

Sutton

Based on the novel “Sutton” by J.R. Moeringher, this extraordinary journey begins on Christmas Eve 1969, when Willie “The Actor” Sutton – Irishman, lover, folk hero, and the most prolific bank robber in American history – stepped out of Attica Prison and boarded a plane for New York City, where he proceeded to take a reporter and photographer on a five-borough guided tour of his remarkable life and crimes. Written and executive produced by Rob Siegel (The Wrestler, Big Fan), Sutton will be executive produced by Jim Burke (The Descendants, Cedar Rapids), Michael De Luca (Moneyball, The Social Network), Alexander Payne (The Descendants, Sideways),) and Jim Taylor (The Descendants, Sideways). Produced by FX Productions.