Want to make your home smarter than ever? If yes, then we have something for you. Netgear, the world’s most popular networking brand has recently released an audio doorbell camera to give you an unmatched experience, aiming to make home security solutions better. Now, you can watch your visitors coming to your door, using Arlo camera app.

What are the specifications of Arlo Audio Doorbell?

Below mentioned are some of its awesome features, making it different from any ordinary doorbell camera.

2 way talk:- With microphone and speaker integrated into it, one can talk to his/her guest.

Easy setup:- Using a simple DIY method, one can install it outside their home.

Mobile notifications:- You get instant notification whenever someone rings the bell. Download Arlo app to operate it.

Weather-resistant:- It is sturdy and there won’t be any effect from sun rays, rain or cold.

Arlo camera integration compatibility:- Connect it with Arlo camera to make smarter than ever.

Further details can be obtained by calling the tech-experts. Use the toll-free number and get connected to one of the next available agents.

Arlo Doorbell Camera | Arlo Audio Doorbell

How does Arlo’s doorbell work?

Its concept is pretty simple. Helping users to someone at the door and they can speak to an attendant from their phone. It can also serve as Arlo Doorbell Camera when you connect it with any of your Arlo cameras. Simply answer the calls with few taps of button. With an integrated microphone and speaker placed inside it, it becomes easy to communicate.

Connect it with the base station

Before you put it into functioning, you need to connect it via the base station. Buy one if you haven’t acquired it. Read the manual to know how you connect Arlo Audio Doorbell with base station. To get help with this, contact the tech-experts now.

Netgear Arlo Audio Doorbell Support

For better understanding, the wise decision is to contact the support team. They are round the clock available, helping global users fix their issues within the shortest possible time. With years of experience in providing global support, fixing customer’s issue has become so easy now. To connect with them, one can dial the support number and get rid of the issues. Also, you can make use of the email address to convey to us your issue. You get an instant response from our side. To know more, get in touch with us now.