The Borgen Project is a non-profit organization which works to achieve a part of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Sustainable Development Goals are designed to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all of us. There are 17 SDGs which include ZERO POVERTY, ZERO HUNGER, GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING, QUALITY EDUCATION, CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION, CLIMATE ACTION, REDUCED INEQUALITIES, and PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS. The Borgen Project works effectively to achieve Goal 1,2,6 and 17 for sustainable development. Unlike many other NGOs around the world, The Borgen Project does not work on the ground because it aims more sustainable aids. It collaborates and lobbies with USAID and the US leaders.

Even though helps on the ground seem like a more tangible and credible way to help, they are mostly less sustainable. I am not all against those aids either but all I am saying is that we should be aware of the fact that those aids only save the day and we should acquire awareness on how to improve sustainability so that people who do not have access to clean water, shelter or food can survive. For example, opening health facilities or teaching farmers sustainable agriculture both provides job openings and fulfillment of fundamental needs of human survival, contributing to both self-improvement and sustainable development. Unfortunately, especially if on ground aids are multilateral aids, they are challenged with corruption and lack of transparency.

The Borgen Project makes an incredible effort on preventing those issues as well through advocacy, lobbying Congressmen, Senate, political leaders, etc. There are many bills that the Borgen Project has made outstanding efforts to have them passed in the Congress including The International Affairs Budget, Digital GAP Act, Global Food Security Act, Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act, Read Act, Build Act and many others.

Long story short, The Borgen Project really works on the efficiency and sustainability of foreign aids very seriously and effectively.

As a part of this world, we must act as one because one’s fragility effects the other. It comes across as unemployment, health, overpopulation and terror all around the world. We all need each other to survive because we do not know what tomorrow brings.

If you also want to be a part of this global partnership , you can donate on behalf of my name (CEREN ÇOLAK) from the DONATION LINK supporting my fundraising campaign on behalf of the world’s poor.