We can’t help it, we always want to try to do everything ourselves before we consider asking for help. It must be said that doing something yourself is often rewarding and can even save money. However, pruning/felling trees is very dangerous and therefore strongly discouraged if you are inexperienced.

Every year, many accidents occur due to improperly installed ladders, electrical cables that have been touched, or chainsaws that have slipped out of one’s hands. According to some statistics, the garden is the most dangerous area among all domestic accidents.

Pruning a tree or trimming a hedge may seem simple, but the lack of proper tools, experience, practice, and know-how can present a huge safety hazard. Here are some of the most common mistakes that lead to accidents, in the strong hope that this will help you if you decide to do the job yourself.

Using ladders

If you’re thinking of using a ladder for your pruning, alarm bells should be ringing. If you are forced to prune a tree on your property, you should seek professional help. Even if you are careful to place your ladder on stable ground, working and handling tools at height is very dangerous and responsible for many falls.

Lack of proper tools

A worker’s efficiency is measured by the quality of his or her tools, and this is even more true when it comes to pruning and felling. A bad chainsaw can be very dangerous and without the necessary experience to use it, the risks of accidents with this type of tool increase enormously. It is very important to know your limits and to accept them. When it becomes too complicated for you, you should not hesitate to call on specialists to avoid the worst.

Is it the right time to cut a tree?

We tend to be attached to our trees, especially when they are old and they seem to have been there forever. However, it is important to know when it is time to part with it and plant a new one instead so as to keep a beautiful and above all risk-free garden. So the question is, how do you determine when it is time to take action and get rid of a tree?

Here are some tips to help you find out:

Is the tree healthy?

Very often, diseases can affect trees, making large parts of them sick or even causing them to die completely. Inspect your tree to make sure it is healthy:

Are all branches firmly tied to the tree?

Or are some half dead and ready to fall?

Is the trunk stable? is it hollow?

Do the leaves look normal? or distorted?

If your tree is at least 50% sick without a chance to heal, then it is better to chop it down rather than bother to heal it or wait in vain. However, you might not able to figure it out. That’s where professional help is very important. Otherwise, you might end up damaging your tree.

Lack of experience

Trees are incredibly complex plants, so it’s good to have an expert’s opinion. Giving random saw or chainsaw strokes can be fatal for both you and the tree.

You can reach out to Tree Removal Santa Ana, they offer professionals with years of experience in pruning and felling trees of all kinds. All of their tree trimmers are trained to:

Identify dead, cracking, or unbalanced trees and branches.

Avoid overhead wires and other current conductors.

Prevent falls from trees they are working on.

Felling entire tree sections without causing injury or property damage.

Do-it-yourself work can give you a nice sense of accomplishment, but it’s important to keep in mind that it comes with risks. Especially when it comes to pruning or cutting down trees. Calling a professional tree trimmer can ultimately save you time, money, and your health.