There are some very good blogger instructors out there. What I mean by that is that they’re willing to help you without charging you first. Money is not their primary motivator. Sure, they have products and packages and services to sell, but there’s no dangling carrot hanging before you. It’s set over on another table for you to go to if you desire. Their first desire is to give you a better footing than what they had when they started. These are the good ones to latch onto. They agree that it’s work, time plus effort. You’re not going to get there overnight, with little to no concerted effort and on the easy road. It doesn’t happen, and definitely not on the Internet.

The Internet is bigger than we realize, more complicated than we know, and more crowded than we see. We all think we have a chance to hit it big. And we do, but not the way we think we do. The Internet is like a very busy airport, lots of people, little room, all kinds of people, everyone rushing here and there. Some have to run across several gates to catch their planes. Others sit and wait because there are delays or cancellations. The activity is constant and you have to watch your back for the sneaky ones who will try to either con you or outright steal from you. Let’s translate.

The Internet is a 24–7 virtual location, always going, always moving, always active. All the people. We’re all accessing the Internet, maybe at different times, different locations, different goals. We all look good in our own eyes with our own set of standards, whatever they may be. We’re all trying to make a name or a place on the net. Some of us are already established and we’re making it happen. Some of us are on the way to making a name for ourselves. Some of us are making the quick dollar, even if it’s at someone’s expense. (We told them; we laid it out in the Terms of Use page. It’s up to them to figure it out.) And then there are those of us who are just getting started (maybe late-bloomers) and we’re are struggling. That’s where I am. And I’ve been distracted more than once by a “good offer”.

They are good offers, but there’s only so much time I have and if I am out for the good offers, I’m likely not writing, my original goal. I want to write. I want to share, but I’m too busy filling out profiles for surveys (quick money), passing out my email for tips or books or classes or workshops to be a better writer, blogger, or freelancer, and this eats up my time fast. It’s tough. It’s hard. It’s discouraging. Most people want to know how to do it better and faster and easier. So do I, but I’m finding that there are very few places and people who are willing to put in that kind of investment into the newbie-freelancers.