Between the alleged lobbying and a report to city council described as a “full-throated offensive,” it seems some people really don’t want a municipal auditor general.

“I’ve heard there’s been considerable lobbying against supporting an auditor general,” said Coun. Bill Marra, who raised the controversial issue that will be debated again Thursday. “That’s a red flag for me. Who the heck would want to fight against it? Someone’s going to a lot of trouble to see this … go down.”

It seems to start with the administration’s report to council. There’s one sentence stating that council should consider the value of an AG — and 24 pages of why it’s useless and expensive.

The Municipal Act “expressly prohibits” an auditor general from auditing bodies like the police, library and health unit, the report states. That’s misleading. While these bodies are not included in the scope of an auditor general, AGs can — and do — audit them.

Ottawa’s auditor general has audited that city’s police and library. Toronto’s AG, governed by different but similar rules, has done a significant amount of work on policing.

“I can work in those areas if I’m requested to,” said Ottawa’s auditor general, Ken Hughes. “My office has done work at the request of the police services board and the library board. I can also ask to work in those areas.”

Even if these organizations want to be audited, they are not subject to the full power of an auditor general, including the power to subpoena witnesses, Windsor’s report says.

“That hasn’t been a concern,” says Jerry Shaubel, an accountant in the Toronto AG’s office. “I wouldn’t accept it (a request to be audited) if there was an attempt to place restrictions on it.”

A municipal auditor general also can’t audit corporations controlled by the city, like the airport or tunnel, or bodies that received city grants, like the economic development corporation, the Windsor report states. That’s not true, and the city will issue a “clarification,” confirmed chief administrative officer Helga Reidel, who signed off on the report.

The report goes on about how much an auditor general would cost – $586,366 or less than .1 per cent of the city’s total budget of about three-quarters of a billion dollars. It may not be enough, the report warns. You have to be Superman to be qualified for this job, and the candidate may demand a higher salary. There’s no space in city hall, so the city may have to rent an office. And the clincher — the city may have to raise taxes or cut programs to pay for an AG.

The report never mentions the return on investment: an average of $12 to $20 for every dollar spent. That’s because an auditor general — independent, with unfettered access to information and the power to subpoena witnesses — can save a lot of money by scrutinizing what the city does and figuring out how to do it better.

The savings generated by the AG in Toronto, $11.80 for every dollar invested, are “significant and far outweigh the cost to operate the office,” states a budget report.

“That’s a really blatant, glaring omission,” said Coun. Irek Kusmierczyk.

The idea of an AG here began with the infamous MFP leasing scandal a decade ago. Leases for things like a landfill, buses and fire trucks that the city and county thought would cost $91 million ended up costing $314 million. Too bad we didn’t have an auditor general then…

But Reidel dismissed finding possible savings here now.

“We have not raised taxes in seven years. We’ve looked under every rock,” she said.

No municipal auditor general has ever used the vaunted power to subpoena, Windsor’s report states. So what’s the point of paying for it?

Here’s a very good point by Marra: “Organizations co-operate, knowing that if they didn’t, the auditor general can subpoena. I think it acts as a deterrent.”

Most important is the independence — rooted in Ontario law — and the trust that engenders.

“That’s the rock of any auditor general’s office,” says local political activist Paul Synnott, who has followed this issue since 2006.

It would be “speculative” to say why only four of 444 municipalities in Ontario have an AG, Windsor’s report states. But it goes on to speculate anyway, saying it’s because they’re expensive and controversial. I think the answer is far simpler: Politicians don’t like people scrutinizing them.

This is a defining issue for councillors and Mayor Drew Dilkens. Are they serious about being accountable as they embark on more big projects, like a new city hall? Do they do their homework (since they won’t get all the information in this report)? Are they critical thinkers (who can see through this report)?

Do they have integrity?

“It was a very significant topic during the election,” said Marra. “Clearly it’s important to the community.”

ajarvis@windsorstar.com

twitter.com/winstarjarvis