The perfect setup to learn coding

All you need is a computer

To learn coding, you don’t need fancy tools. You just need:

A MacBook Air or an equivalent computer

An environment where you can focus

A happy mood

Alright, if you want to hear the detailed analysis, read on.

Mac, Windows or Linux?

Mac, Windows or Linux will do. You should use a system that you’re familiar with.

But which is truly better?

Alright, let’s dive into it.

Mac? Many programmers use Mac because the interface is user friendly, and it’s easy to install software for software development. If you have a Mac, you can develop most types of web and mobile applications. Mac also has a great built-in command-line interface with a lot of community support.

Windows? Its command-line interface is generally inferior to Mac, but it’s been improving with more tools built by the community. Software installations for software development have a larger variance compared to the Mac. Sometimes, you can install things you need in one-click. At other times, you have to Google a lot to install something.

Linux? Linux has the most flexibility out of the three. You can install anything you want in any way you prefer (if you know how). But, it’s the least user- friendly out of the three. For beginners, Mac and Windows are easier to start with.

What screen size do I need? How many monitors do I need?

I learnt everything about coding in a 13-inch laptop. I am currently using a 13-inch laptop. I code with a 13-inch laptop. 13-inch is fine (See #1 in the image below). 15-inch is good too.

I recommend a setup where you can focus on one thing at a time. So, you only need 1 monitor to be productive.

I also find a widescreen monitor (25-inch) to be productive (See #2 in the image below). Keep in mind that, if the screen size is too big, you will also be unproductive since your eyes have to travel back and forth across a big screen.

The common problem with multiple monitors is that your eyes have to constantly travel back and forth, and left to right. The only two-monitor setup I’ve found productive is the top-down approach (See #3 in the image below). This way, you can focus on one screen at a time and use the other for referencing.