What to buy a tech-lover for Christmas | mypatricia.co

`There’s always that one person in your life who’s addicted to tech. Anything new and techy, they’re on the front row. Don’t judge them, to each his own. What you can do is encourage them, and what better time to do so if not Christmas?

Still, looking for the perfect gift for that tech-lover in your life? Look no further.

We’ve scouted out a few tech gadgets that’ll put a smile on their faces this season and peg you as their favourite of all time.

PS 5: Yeah, that was expected, but what can we say, it’s every game lover's dream right now. If they don’t already own one, this might be a good time of year to give them a surprise they won’t forget in a hurry.

Smart speakers: Apart from gaming, a tech lover loves his music as well. When they play alone, they like to block out the noise in the environment with some good jam, and a speaker that speaks their language is just what they’re looking for to complete the mood.

Headphones: Unlike speakers, these give a more personalized touch to your gifting. They can wear them when they’re working, playing games, taking a walk or a run. It’s ideal for both indoor and outdoor use. Make sure to get good quality headphones that’ll last for a long time.

Apple iPad: We all know that this is a useful gadget for a tech-lover, as it contains multipurpose functions for game, work, music. The Apple iPad comes in a great design, touch ID Power Button, and top performance battery.

Smartwatch: These are becoming a trend, not just for tech lovers, but for anyone who values comfort. The smartwatch is fast replacing the fashion sentiment that wristwatches have become for most people, instead of the original purpose of time checking; it is more functional. Especially for those conscious about their health, it has a fitness feature that monitors heart rate and blood oxygen, sleep, stress and activity tracking, sports recording, and basic smartwatch features. It’s like having a doctor on your wrist. Literally

Shop amazing gadgets from www.9robee.com, Social media: @9robee and or on Whatsapp:+234 902 138 0278.