Singer/Songwriter

Genres- Soca/Pop/Fusion

Aisha Noel, was born in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. With a love for the performing arts she began her musical education at a young age in piano in addition to singing, songwriting and classical ballet. As a young girl she partook in various calypso song writing camps where she learned about the local art form. Aisha also competed in multiple music festivals representing her school choir, St. Josephs’ Convent San Fernando. After achieving her bachelor’s degree with honors in International Relations and Psychology, at the University of the West Indies, Aisha’s free-spirited and adventurous nature led her to Latin America where guided by her passion for music she performed at various schools in the country of Colombia. This journey outside of her home country in many ways pushed Aisha to begin her musical journey as a performing artist and to embark on a career in music, her life- long dream.

On her return to Trinidad and Tobago, Aisha landed a place as one of the top finalists in this year’s official “Uncovered Live” showcase 2018, with her own show, Aisha Uncovered Live, at Kaiso Blues Cafe being a tremendous success. Since then she has performed in many shows thus far, including but not limited to New Fire Festival 2018 and the Republic Bank Decibel Expo 2018. Within that same year, the talented and determined songstress released her first production entitled, “Nobody be Safe” an r&b/soca infused track produced by the Ballistik Boyz. A track that gained the artist attention in her home country and fans in Japan and Korea. Aisha Noel has a desire to bring her own unique style and sound to Soca music.

It then came as no surprise that within the following year, Aisha released her first Soca Single, “Soca Fever (Baile). This song spear heads the, “Hello Bacchannal Riddim”, alongside artistes, Orlando Octave, 5Star Akil, Ricardo Drue, Fadda Fox accordingly. To date the artist has released four songs which includes her recent release, “One Dance” off the One Link Riddim and has written for Soca Artist, Nailah Blackman on her latest released track, “Trouble Wine”. Aisha Noel names Beyoncé, Nicki Minaj, Rihanna, Bunji Garlin and Buju Banton. as some of her idols. Aisha has a single-minded vision for her future and aims at honing her craft and becoming a world-renowned international artiste.