The IB has done away with the previous system entirely and comes up with two new courses of Math, both for SL and HL. These are Math AA (Mathematics: analysis and approaches) and Math AI (Mathematics: applications and interpretations). Math AA focuses on algebraic methods, while Math AI integrates technology with its focus on statistics and modeling. The purpose of improvisation in the IBDP Math syllabus is to open up more career opportunities for the students who have a deep passion for Math and also equipped with critical and analytical skills with the problem-solving ability both in the real and abstract worlds.

Physics

IBDP Physics syllabus, as a part of the Nature of Sciences (NOS) in Group 4 of the IBDP, is the most fundamental of the experimental sciences, as it seeks to explain the universe itself from the smallest atomic particle to the inter-galaxy distances. The study involves hands-on activities in the classroom or in the field. Integrating natural phenomena and secondary data sources, the students are able to investigate, research, collect data, improvise results, analyze, critique, and reflect. Observations with imagination take this discipline to a new dimension- the art of Imagineering and this is where in a recent analysis it comes under the study of STEAM instead of STEM.

Psychology

Psychology is a very rigorous structured study of mental processes and behavior. It is trans-disciplinary, adaptive to changes, can encounter challenges, and hence is pretty dynamic.

The relation between the approaches and areas helps in analyzing the key factors underpinning the mental process and diverse behavior. The approaches are Biological, Cognitive, and Socio-cultural approaches to the understanding of behavior. These approaches are applied in the areas or options of study which are Abnormal Psychology, Developmental Psychology, Health Psychology, and Psychology in Relationships.

For More Information:-SEV7N IB RESOURCE CENTRE

Email id:-sev7nib@gmail.com

MOBILE NO:-+919717229659