TACTICS: Intentions, goals, execution!

Today it is essential to stick to your guns. You have been planning; you have been pondering what you do, how you accomplish. You must execute your planning. You need to combine rigorous planning with a ‘hardcore’ execution.

Yesterday, I was talking to the head of sales of EMEA at an enterprise company. Let’s call her Janice. She has been very inspirational, and we touched upon how great it is to plan but even more to execute.

So, what does Janice thing about planning vs. execution? Let me paraphrase it. You can try to plan everything, but it’s instead set up small projects and campaigns and go out to test it. Most likely, you might fail, which will force you to go back and recenter.

“When we accept that doing a thing for the first time might be ugly, we accept the messiness and failure, we don’t have to pretend to be perfect.” — Fit-budd

Intentions and goals

In my opinion, first, you have a thought to do something, and from there, you design your goals and go out and act on your plan.

An intention is an idea that you plan (or intend) to carry out. If you mean something, it’s an intention. Your goal, purpose, or aim is your intention. It’s something you intend to do, whether you pull it off or not.

A goal is an idea of the future or desired result that a person or a group of people envision, plan, and commit to achieving. People endeavor to reach goals within a finite time by setting deadlines.

Let’s say you are having a good intention to understand diet and the relation with your gut, but is that enough? A good intention does not mean you will go and act upon that intention unless you decide to do repeatedly study, read and try until you understand the relation properly.

Action is the fact or process of doing something, typically to achieve an aim.

Here some of the keywords:

Steps, measures, activity, movement, work, working, effort, exertion, operation, act, take steps, take measures, take the initiative, move, make a move, react, do something.

Simplify, simplify, simplify

If you think about your goals like a sequence of milestones and touchpoints, rather than one big piece and chunk, it will be easier for your brain and you to associate with it and execute it.

Human beings need to have a big fat ‘WHY’ if you have not read the book from Simon Sinek, Golden Circle.

You need to follow strong motivation and make sure you measure progress.

“The biggest secret of progress is — consistency.” — Fit-budd

Embrace struggle and perseverance

So, embrace the learning curve, be accountable to your friends and family. Show them you are working towards something bigger and that you need and want to succeed. Don’t take it for granted; we give up way too often and way too soon.

Build your self-esteem around something real, not something fragile, like accepting when you say you’ll do something, and you DON’T DO that!

Be the gal and guy that honors struggle and perseverance. Build your self-esteem around executing your goals. Stick to your guns, proud yourself with going out and trying stuff out even when it’s scary.