A report posted on the Brewers Association site late yesterday afternoon listed the following as the most important points to come out of an hour-long teleconference for BA members conducted by SymphonyIRI Group S.r Vice President Dan Wandel concerning the state of the craft beer category this year to date:

Blue Moon Belgian White Ale cracks top 15 beer brands by dollar sales for first time

Ninkasi Brewing leads all Craft Vendors this year based on new product Dollar Sales ($1.5M)

Private Label beer sales are on the rise with 1,381,243 cases sold YTD for 2011. 1,295,522 sold in all of 2010.

Six of the top nine craft beer and specialty beer brands based on case sales growth are made by MillerCoors or A-B.

Bell’s Brewery has moved into the number 8 position of craft beer vendors based on dollar sales with $7.5MM, an increase of 30.5 percent since last year. Stone Brewing Co. moves into 10th with $7.1MM, an increase of 22.8 percent since last year.

Total craft dollars, YTD, are $448.1MM. The top 15 brands account for 40% of all craft dollar sales. The best-selling brand is Sierra Nevada Pale Ale.

Canned craft beer offerings are continuing to grow. 6-packs, 120z cans up 121 percent over last year.

IPA’s passed Pale Ale to become the number two selling craft beer style in supermarkets. 53 IPA brands are selling in supermarkets compared to 177 in 2010.

Samuel Adams is approaching their “sweet spot” for seasonal selling. 39 percent of their seasonal case sales in 2010 were made between September and November.

Craft beer has outsold premium brands in Oregon since October 31st 2010.

There’s a lot there to digest and I suspect most eyes jumped to the news of the emergence of IPAs as the major brand in supermarkets (we’ve all pretty much known its strength at craft bars and retailers) and that impressive performance in Oregon for almost a year now.

But there are some troublesome trends as well. Jenn Litz focused on those in yesterday’s Craft Beer Daily, which came out before the BA posting:

PRIVATE LABEL MOUNTING THREAT. String this one to the top of your worry poll. Heretofore the craft conversation has been stuck on a hamster wheel of sky-is-falling rhetoric about SKU proliferation. But retailers have been progressively ceding shelf space to the hot segment the last couple of years. What’s more alarming is the growth of private label beer in the last year and a half, which has already achieved 1.4 share of beer case sales in total U.S. drug channel so far this year – and plays best in the West and California regions, the strongest craft markets. In fact, we’re already surpassed last year’s mark for private label sales. The numbers signify “a whole new level of acceptance for private label” in the minds of consumers. Scary, considering that craft brewers actually brew some private label brands. Also begs a whole new dimension to the pricing conversation.

[ … ]

BIG BOYS’ MOUNTING MOMENTUM. Not with their domestics, of course. With their craft brands. (Ed. Note: We’ve been getting hate mail about calling them craft. Welp. That’s how they’re presented to the consumer, which makes it relevant to the segment. Especially since …) Blue Moon cracked the top 15 beer brands for the first time. And A-B’s Shock Top Raspberry Wheat put its producer on the list for top 10 vendors for new product sales.

As we’ve written, the big brewers’ “craft” brands account for much of the segment growth. Six of the top 9 craft/specialty brands are made by A-B or MillerCoors. And in the top 10 craft food markets, Blue Moon and Shock Top growth way outpaces the rest of craft. Something to watch, especially considering A. Tom Cardella admitted to CBD last week that Tenth is looking to acquire, and B. Such acquisitions don’t necessarily hurt a brewery’s cred. Case in point: Dan proclaimed there has been “no hangover effective whatsoever on Goose Island sales” post-buy, citing, for example, “rockin'” Chicago food and drug sales, where the brand family is up 24% in dollars and 20% in case sales vs YA.

If those private labels and “big boy crafts” are bringing new drinkers to the table and helping the segment show its impressive numbers, that’s a good deal for our side. Newcomers will eventually try the real thing, one supposes, and most of them will find the better is, well, better and move on from their entry level brews. And the bigger the sales figures for craft are, the easier it is to get distributors, retailers and publicans to give them proper attention.

On the other hand, if ersatz craft disappoints a significant number of potential craft buyers and the Big Blands start throwing their weight around in the segment to demand more shelf space and taps, the fight we thought we’d basically won might turn out to be a sour victory.

I guess what I’m saying is that, when you really look into the impressive numbers for craft, the details can be a little worrisome.