Call to Action: Voting Reforms for More Equitable Representation in Portland

By Robin Ye, City Club member

Instilling belief that our democracy can be responsive to what the people want is the civic battle of our times. In Portland, our democracy demands we do no less. It’s time to think beyond merely “reforming” our eroding institutions in the City of Portland. As a society, we’ve continually changed, innovated, modernized almost every aspect of our lives — shouldn’t our system of voting be the same?

One option available to Portland is simple: introduce a charter amendment that would replace Portland’s at-large system and “choose-one” elections with ranked-choice voting, as is used in two dozen jurisdictions throughout the country (including Maine, Alaska San Francisco, and New York City). Ranked choice voting is a method where voters can rank candidates on their ballots in order of preference (e.g., 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc.) and these preferences are factored in until a candidate wins a majority of the ballots (50% + 1). For example, if three candidates are running for a position and two candidates are the top choice for roughly 40% of the voters, but the third candidate gets only 20%, that third candidate would be eliminated and their votes would be redistributed based on who those voters ranked second. This “instant runoff” means that voters can better vote their conscience without fear of “wasting” their vote or playing spoiler, and the ultimate winner of the election is someone who has broad support.

Furthermore, eliminating the city’s primary election — where turnout is considerably lower than in the general election and disproportionately older, whiter, and wealthier — would help address the problem of vote splitting, thereby empowering voters with more choices and encouraging candidates who represent the interests of communities of color to run for office. In November 2020, 85% of eligible voters in Portlander selected their government versus 55% in May. Yet, the races are often decided in May. This means that tens of thousands of voters might not have gotten to choose their preferred candidate during the election.

In order to rectify societal and systemic inequities in our nation, we must address societal and systemic inequities in our local representative democracy. I encourage the Charter Review Commission and the Portland City Council rise to meet this moment in history and replace the commission form of government with a more equitable system.