“With great power comes great responsibility.” — Uncle Ben, Spiderman

Who knew a comic book character could hold such wisdom? Yet, this maxim stays true even in reality. Although humanity’s latest innovation, electronics, has drastically improved our quality of life, it’s not dealt with responsibly.

Every single year, 50 million metric tons of electronic waste is thrown out, and only one-eighth of that is being properly recycled. The rest?

They sit in landfills gathering rust, destroying our planet, and harming people all at the same time.

Then why doesn’t someone do something about this?

Recycling e-waste is unpopular because it’s too inconvenient. Instead of just throwing it in the trash, consumers have to go out of their way to recycle.

This problem has been overlooked for far too long. The mountains of dilapidated computers, phones, and other consumer electronics have grown too massive to simply sweep under the rug.

This issue facing humanity requires a fix that is both efficient and cost-effective. By applying the rapidly advancing field of artificial intelligence with the global e-waste crisis, our long-term solution provides a sustainable system to recycle e-waste.

What is E-Waste?

E-waste is defined as any electronic equipment that’s been discarded, including home appliances (microwaves, fridges), consumer electronics (phones, computers), and electronic utilities (light bulbs, batteries).

Most electronics contain many toxic materials such as lead, cadmium, lithium, barium, mercury, and arsenic that can contaminate the soil, water, and air. This can cause significant harm to humans as well as wildlife.

If the toxic chemicals contained in e-waste contaminate local water sources (rivers, groundwater) or are released into the air, they can harm people. The health risks range from kidney disease and brain damage to genetic mutations and cancer.

Current “Solutions”

Most e-waste is not recycled. Instead, it is thrown in large pits or burned. Needless to say, both of those options are terrible for the environment as it releases toxic chemicals into the soil, waterways, and air.

Some recyclers ship collected e-waste to underdeveloped areas of the world under the guise of philanthropy. Claiming that their “donations” help bring technology to developing nations, they illegally dump the trash in inhabited areas.

One of these places is the city of Guiyu in rural China. Due to e-waste contaminating the drinking water there, it has the highest level of cancer-causing dioxins in the world. Scientists also found that 82% of the children living there had lead poisoning.

For the small percentage of e-waste that is recycled, the process is extremely inefficient. Though electronics often contain a variety of useful and expensive minerals and metals such as gold and platinum, most processes only salvage the steel, copper, and plastic due to the outdated technology employed.