AbstractFanconi anemia (FA) is a rare genetic disease characterized by the deficiency of the cellular response and repair pathway for DNA interstrand crosslink (ICL) damage. Although recent studies have revealed the detailed molecular functions of FA proteins encoded by 22 genes, the mechanism of occurrence of endogenous ICLs in the human body remains poorly understood. In this short review, we summarize the potential endogenous sources of ICLs counteracted by FA proteins, and provide perspectives on the unanswered questions regarding FA.IntroductionFanconi anemia (FA) is a genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous recessive disease associated with congenital abnormalities, bone marrow failure (BMF), and a predisposition to both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Moreover, endocrine abnormalities, such as dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome are common in patients with FA [1]. At present, 22 genes responsible for FA have been identified, and all the encoded proteins function in an intracellular signaling pathway, designated as the FA pathway, which regulates the response to and repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) (Table 1, and Fig. 1). Therefore, at the cellular level, FA is characterized by hypersensitivity to ICLs induced by chemical agents, such as mitomycin C and cisplatin [2]. Bone marrow transplantation is the only known cure for FA-associated hematologic malignancies; however, safe and effective therapies for treating or preventing the increased risk of solid tumors have not yet been established. The two longstanding questions in FA research are, “What are the natural causes of ICLs?” and “What is the origin of these causes?” Even in the absence of environmental exposure to ICL-inducing agents, patients with FA display clinical symptoms at birth or in early life. Detailed mechanisms of these symptoms remain unclear; however, recent studies have revealed important insights into the pathogenesis of FA (see below).Table 1 The FA gene products and their functionsFull size tableFig. 1A model for the canonical FA pathway. The FA core complex is a multiple protein complex which contains a homo-dimeric module for ubiquitination. FANCT acts as a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme associated with the FA core complex. FANCD2 and FANCI form a heterodimer (ID complex), and are known as targets for mono-ubiquitination mediated by the FA core complex. FANCP and FANCQ are involved in DNA strand incisions on either side of the ICL (a process called “unhooking”). FANCV is an accessory subunit of DNA polymerase ζ involved in translesion synthesis over the unhooked ICL. At the final step of ICL repair, a homologous recombination-mediated process restores the fidelity of the genome. For more detailed mechanisms of the canonical FA pathway, see a review in [34]Full size imageAcetaldehyde and formaldehydeA wide variety of reactive aldehydes are ubiquitously found in the environment. Acetaldehydes are the major by-products of the catabolic metabolism of alcoholic beverages [3]. Formaldehyde is not only a chemical compound present in some cosmetics and foods, but also a naturally-occurring compound in the human body [4, 5]. The International Agency for Research on Cancer categorizes these aldehydes into “Group 1,” the highest risk factors for carcinogenicity. Recently, an understanding of the effect of these small aldehydes has yielded significant progress on our view of the pathogenesis of FA. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) and alcohol dehydrogenase 5 (ADH5) play important roles in acetaldehyde and formaldehyde detoxification, respectively. Both enzymes oxidize aldehydes, thereby reducing its genotoxic effects. Interestingly, human and chicken FA-deficient cells have been shown to be hypersensitive to plasma levels of formaldehyde without any defect on both ALDH2 and ADH5 [6]. Mice deficient in Aldh2 displayed chromosomal aberrations and increased mutagenesis in their hematopoietic stem cells [7]. Moreover, combined inactivation of FA genes and Aldh2 or Adh5 demonstrated developmental defects, BMF, and a predisposition to leukemia [8,9,10,11]. About 540 million of the world’s population, particularly the East Asians, carry a dominant-negative allele (rs671) of ALDH2 [12]. Alcohol consumption by the individuals with this variant is strongly associated with higher risks of esophageal and rectal cancer [13, 14]. Remarkably, the homozygosity of the ALDH2 variant in Japanese patients with FA is associated with accelerated progression of BMF compared to the heterozygotes [15]. All these results strongly suggest that the level of endogenous aldehydes is important for the pathogenesis of FA.