So, COVID-19 huh?

For a bootstrapped company like us that plans with a 3 month runway, this is a deathknell. However in the larger scheme of things with the loss of lives and livelihoods all around us, we are grateful for our health and our homes. Businesses can always be rebuilt.

COVID effect. The number of interviews is our north star metric. That has plummeted of late.

But enough of our worries! Here we are, offering a world-class tech team to help build and take your product to the market for you. We are committing a time period of upto 6 months to work with you.

What’s the team?

We’ve spent majority of our working lives at ThoughtWorks. 4 of us have spent close to 10 years there. We’ve built world-class software across domains and tech stacks. Go, NodeJS, Java, Python, AngularJS are what we’ve worked on mostly, but we see new tech as something that can be picked up fairly quickly.

We have a 5-member team available — 3 developers, and 2 of us who are good with product and marketing.

Dhanush Gopinath, CTO at Geektrust who loves & lives to code. Ex-ESPN & Altair. Big time proponent of Go (we use Go at Geektrust). Has worked on Java, NodeJS, Python, Groovy and Angular.

Alok Simha, Principal Developer, ex-ThoughtWorks, ex-Scripbox. Has worked on Java, C#, Go, NodeJS, Angular. Worked at ThoughtWorks locations across the world.

Gaurav Aditya, Developer, IIT-Bombay post grad, ex-eClerx, ex-Brillio. Joined Geektrust a year ago. Has worked on NodeJS, Go, and Angular.

Sneha Jain, CPO at Geektrust. Product manager & project manager at ThoughtWorks before Geektrust. Managed products for clients in India, UK, Singapore and the US.

Krishnan Nair, CEO at Geektrust, ex Head of Delivery at ThoughtWorks. Worked at Bangalore, London, San Francisco, San Antonio as agile consultant for ThoughtWorks in the past.

In the not-so-distant past, we’ve helped a leading Indian fintech startup build some key parts of their product. If you’re interested, you can reach us at hello@geektrust.in. When you write in, do write in detail about yourself, your company and the product. Thank you!