VIDEO: Chelsea Clinton Runs From Questions About Returning Harvey Weinstein’s ‘Clinton Foundation Donations’

Hillary Clinton went on with Fareed Zakaria to discuss sexual predator Harvey Weinstein.

Hillary said she was “sick, shocked and appalled” by allegations that Weinstein was a serial sexual predator.

Weinstein is a major donor and bundler for the Democrat Party.

Hillary Clinton told Zakaria she will give all of his donations to charity.

“Well, there’s no one to give it back to. What other people are saying, what my former colleagues are saying, is that they’re going to donate it to charity, and of course I will do that.”

Yeah, that’s gonna happen.

…Says the woman who wrote off used underpants on her tax returns!

https://twitter.com/SalHernandez/status/918255191287312384?ref_src=twsrc% 5Etfw&ref_url=http% 3A% 2F% 2Fwww.thegatewaypundit.com% 2F2017% 2F10% 2Fhillary-speaks-clinton-sick-shocked-appalled-weinstein-allegations-will-give-donations-charity-wink-wink% 2F

Chelsea Clinton ran away from the press today.

On Saturday, Chelsea Clinton ran from press questions about the Clinton Foundation’s plans to return Harvey Weinstein’s $250,000 donation.

Daily Mail UK reports:

Chelsea Clinton fled to her car to avoid answering questions from a DailyMail.com reporter on Saturday about whether the Clinton Foundation will return up to $250,000 in donations from accused rapist Harvey Weinstein. The former first daughter, who is a board member of the Clinton Foundation, ran from questions while she was attending a Clinton Global Initiative University event in Northeastern University in Boston. The night before, Clinton Foundation press officials blocked a DailyMail.com reporter attempting to approach Bill Clinton to ask him questions at a public event. […] Weinstein has given between $100,000 and $250,000 to the foundation, according to its records.

Embattled Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein is the subject of a devastating expose detailing decades of sexual harassment. Weinstein is one of Hillary Clinton’s biggest donors, having raised mega bucks for the failed Democratic presidential candidate.

Weinstein threw a fundraiser for Clinton back in June.

Page Six reports

Harvey Weinstein is throwing a starry fundraiser for Hillary Clinton on Monday with co-hosts Leo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lopez, Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick. Weinstein and his designer wife, Georgina Chapman, are planning a dinner and conversation with Clinton at their Manhattan home to benefit the Hillary Victory Fund. We’re told the event will be for around 50. Weinstein has hosted fundraisers at his townhouse, as well as his home in Connecticut, for President Obama in 2011, ’12 and ’13.

How much did the fundraiser net for Clinton? $1.8 million.

From Deadline:

Something in the neighborhood of $1.8 million was raised at Harvey Weinstein’s star-packed fundraiser for Hillary Clinton in New York City Monday night, sources tell Deadline. The event for 50 or so Clinton supporters at Weinstein’s Manhattan home drew some major Hollywood names, including Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lopez, Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, Candice Bergen, Bethenny Frankel and designers Vera Wang and Tory Burch.

In the following month, Weinstein threw a concert for Clinton at the St. James Theatre.