What was life like → a shy kid → both parents were start-up people as well as their grandparents. (grandparents → move there and it was the first village → building the community.) → build a city for the people.

They wanted to make this into a city in Colombia → have everything around you → save so much time and be efficient. (grandmother → is a very amazing person → get caught but play around with the rules) → both people were → challenging the original thoughts and creating new ideas and stuff.

Do not be that fucking good kid → and break the rules and more → fuck shit up. (any → sell candy and more → resell it). (take a gift to turn it into cash → this is practicing selling stuffs → door to door selling).

His mother → was not involved → he just did it on his own → started the boy's group → and this was the start) → in the meeting in the club → but was not in the frat guy → created much smarter frat.).

So this guy was very natural at creating a group and breaking the rules → and bending the stereotype. (want to make a legacy).

Do not be mean to other people → have a great experience at university. (went to Spain → study Mexico → travel all around and more → free ticket → there was no prepayment → have to work in between the places).

Work in the overseas → live in Spain → converted resume into Spanish → and went to every bar → very fast → English and more → cool way to meet people and everything → got bored of that → language school and more.

English school → they were bringing the army → to teach English girl and Irish guy → that was their job. (very cool experience → serious girlfriend) → traveling by himself → free soul.

And worked for mother → and more → very good rating → so there were some family backups → marketing and PR software were being sold.

Did really well → how to get people to open up → and trying to grow up the company. (he was consulting other people → he was able to listen to other people). (became really good → but got bored). (he was into learning experience).

Taking the course of the sale → is critical.

Slowly remove me from the workplace. (the four-hour workplace). (big move → and remote work → while working in the indie source → had some long conversations → with other people as well → he was interested in creating the company).

Optimizing the old way → this is more or less his way of doing business. (cold calling → this was the start of the business → all-day → but did not take a lot → a good idea will sell itself). (now doing everything in LA → everybody is separated → this is a horrible idea).

Have to be in the same place → to take your time → in the development. (in general, → this is a clothing industry).

Optimizing the old process → this is their business. (he is a non-technical people → choosing the right one is so hard → need to know the person who is good).

Managing people is a key skill for everyone. (a good hire is a key idea → but good people is worth all of the money) → hire really good people → twice as expensive → but they do a good amount of job.

Now the marketing component will be added on. (understanding what kind of things sell is very important). (being close to the customers is very important).

Work with great guys → and other great companies → produce great stuff.

Darkest days → scale the company in thirty people → keeping the balance is very important → cannot pay the employee → and this is very important to note.

Fight or flight attitude.

Do not have any money → and this is very scary on thing to do. (also the business is growing → kids line and more). (they brought all of the different players in the manufacturing industry). (they were having a crazy growth).

For people just starting → look at the numbers and do statistic. (get the numbers correctly!) → this is critical. (he is expert in sales → how to get there → language → as well as creating the people → just call them → to get momentum).

Just do it. (ask why → selling something → ask why).