YouTube can be a place where you learn or where you waste tons of time. I had recently noticed that I was slipping into the rabbit hole too often. So to be more intentional with what I watch on YouTube, I gave myself a challenge.

The Challenge states that I should write an article every day, explaining one of the videos that I watched on that day and what I learnt from it.

The video that most resonated with me today was the following video by ModernHealthMonk.

Through this video, I was introduced to a book called “It Works: The Famous Little Red Book That Makes Your Dreams Come True!” by an anonymous author. It is a short 30-page book.

The book's main focus is that you should write down the top 10 things you want to achieve and go through it at least 3 times a day.

That's it.

According to the author, If you constantly remind yourself of the things you want to achieve, your subconscious mind will fire up and try to make those things a reality.

The 10 goals can be anything, “I want a new bike” or, “I want to earn 1 Crore a year” or “I want to be the best version of myself”.

The author suggests that you initially start with material goals and then build up to more abstract ones. You should also be specific about your goals. For Example, “I want to be rich” is not very specific. A better goal is: “I want to have 10 Lakh Rupees in my bank account when I am 25”. The more specific the goals are, the better.

The 10 goals that you’ve initially written are not set in stone. They can be rearranged as and when your priorities change and also, new goals can be added and the existing ones can be removed when you realise that you no longer want to achieve a particular goal.

A change in goals is never an issue. It just means that your priorities are changing and that you are growing as a person.

I would highly recommend you to go through the short book. Also, your feedback is very important to me. Please share it with your friends and family. Do let me know if I missed anything from the book.