HOW TO MANAGE YOUR ENERGY MORE EFFECTIVELY

Photo by pressfoto @ Freepik

As someone that loves being proactive, I always thought having good time management skills was what I needed to experience greater success and fulfilment in my life.

Over time, by studying the subject of human performance in more detail, I realised if we want to improve our motivation, wellbeing, and productivity in our day, we should put our attention to how we manage our energy.

Don’t get me wrong, good time management is essential, it was recently demonstrated in a survey by IBM as the second most critical skill to thrive in this new era of work.

However, the reason why I think energy management is a more profound concept is because it encourages us to look within to learn how we operate individually. It’s a continuous journey of self-discovery that makes us more agile in the way we manage ourselves and our time. Want to know the first skill that came on top in the IBM study? Adaptability!

As human beings, we are incredibly sophisticated machines cable of fantastic outcomes. The problem is we are often unaware of how to get our machine to operate at its best: we are driving a Ferrari but don’t know how to shift gears properly.

If we are always running in high gear, we will run out of gas pretty soon whereas if we are always in low gear, we might not take the opportunities that life presents us with.

Energy, whether you look at it from a spiritual or rational perspective, is what drives us as human beings to take action and live fully. If you are looking to experience greater purpose and meaning with your TO-DO list, connecting with your energy is an essential component to be in tune with what you do.

If on the other hand, you are looking to optimise your effectiveness, knowing how to align your daily tasks with your energy levels will significantly boost your productivity.

When we master this element of mindfulness and self-awareness, we can manage ourselves and our day more effectively and sustainably.

With this in mind, here is a couple of things to acknowledge when it comes to energy management.