The Impact of Breaking Silence

Shame In Silence Is Why Violence Continues.

Abusive people really hate transparency and people practicing it.

People who do bad things definitely don’t want other people to know about it — That’s why people who use violence against others try to silence those who speak out against it.

I won’t apologize for things I’m not sorry for.

I will not compromise with someone who wants to disagree in debate with factual reality.

If I know something is right, I will not change where I stand, nor say I was wrong if it isn’t true.

I will not live in lies.

Never regret telling the truth.

To withhold truth is to lie.

To lie is to become a liar.

To be a liar is to help others who lie.

Those who lie destroy life.

If people think badly of you, or say you’re wrong because you told the truth in good faith, then they are not trustworthy people.

Not allowing someone to speak, trying to silence their free speech of truth, is violence.

It’s an attempt to prevent a target from reasonable measures of protection or self-defense against other violations of human rights.

Autonomy is stripped so they can hold power over you.

Abusers want to push the victim off the deep end; They thrive on hostile reactivity of their target’s fighting back against violence.

They want you anxious, sad, suicidal. They want to break you, make you unhinged. Feeling afraid depletes rationality, so they can control you.

Intense gaslighting present in violent family dynamics is suffocating; If they can successfully take away your voice, by altering it, to convince that you did something wrong…then Truth will remain hidden in silent darkness, feeding demons. This is real violence.

Violent men who hurt women call their target’s taking back of basic human rights an “attack.” But, that’s not true at all. Why?

Because abusers strip you of autonomy to disempower you in the relationship, and if you’re a woman, you’re already deprived of equality.

Under the constant pressure of stress from living in violence, the body will begin to break down.

Many women who’ve been subjected to violence all their lives have been made to accept it as a mere reality, when it’s not proper behavior. They remain unknowingly drenched in attitudes that enable it to continue, by giving aggressors a beautifully painted face.

Until we step outside of the war zone, we really cannot see or fully understand what violence looks like from the outside looking in. For those who’ve been brave enough to step outside the matrix, we have chosen to become healers.