AbstractBackgroundFalls in older people represent a major age-related health challenge facing our society. Novel methods for delivery of falls prevention programs are required to increase effectiveness and adherence to these programs while containing costs. The primary aim of the Information and Communications Technology-based System to Predict and Prevent Falls (iStoppFalls) project was to develop innovative home-based technologies for continuous monitoring and exercise-based prevention of falls in community-dwelling older people. The aim of this paper is to describe the components of the iStoppFalls system.MethodsThe system comprised of 1) a TV, 2) a PC, 3) the Microsoft Kinect, 4) a wearable sensor and 5) an assessment and training software as the main components.ResultsThe iStoppFalls system implements existing technologies to deliver a tailored home-based exercise and education program aimed at reducing fall risk in older people. A risk assessment tool was designed to identify fall risk factors. The content and progression rules of the iStoppFalls exergames were developed from evidence-based fall prevention interventions targeting muscle strength and balance in older people.ConclusionsThe iStoppFalls fall prevention program, used in conjunction with the multifactorial fall risk assessment tool, aims to provide a comprehensive and individualised, yet novel fall risk assessment and prevention program that is feasible for widespread use to prevent falls and fall-related injuries. This work provides a new approach to engage older people in home-based exercise programs to complement or provide a potentially motivational alternative to traditional exercise to reduce the risk of falling.BackgroundThe prevention of falls and mobility-related disability among older people is an urgent public health challenge worldwide [1]. The risk of falling is linked to several factors which include gait instability, muscle weakness, balance impairment, slow reactions, visual deficit, the type and number of medications, cardiovascular conditions, cognitive impairment, and the history of falls [2, 3]. Evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses suggests that tailored, multifactorial programs with an overall focus on exercise are more likely to prevent falls [1]. However, in order to promote uptake and adherence, identification of enjoyable and engaging falls prevention programs are needed [4].Serious games are digital games used for learning or training purposes and have become a popular area for research [5, 6]. These types of games can provide an opportunity to deliver health messages, and to motivate and guide people to make lifestyle changes [5–7]. The utilization of digital game technology has increasingly been used to deliver exercise programs and to facilitate health rehabilitation [5, 6]. Commercially-available devices such as the Nintendo™ Wii (2005) and Microsoft Xbox Kinect® (2010) can monitor movement via inexpensive technologies within a home-based setting. Using technology to deliver exercise training may enable greater choice in preferred exercise options, increase convenience and accessibility, and enhance a greater level of engagement [8]. Further, the use of technology allows for immediate performance feedback, extended monitoring and analysis, as well as optional interaction with clinicians and/or peers, which allows people to obtain assistance when needed. Therefore, there is potential for technology-based solutions to reduce costs while maintaining individualised high-quality healthcare.The main objective of the Information and Communication Technology-based System to Predict and Prevent Falls (iStoppFalls) project was to develop and evaluate innovative home-based technologies for fall risk assessment, continuous monitoring and prevention of falls in community-dwelling adults. This approach will enable individualised exercise and education programs coached by the iStoppFalls system, using unobtrusive technology. This paper aims to present and discuss the development of the iStoppFalls system towards the prediction and prevention of falls by monitoring mobility-related activities and risk factors for falls in everyday-life and delivering a home-based exercise program.MethodsThe emphasis of the iStoppFalls project is not on laboratory research but on active implementation of existing technologies and evidence-based fall prevention strategies for older people living in the community. The iStoppFalls system uses innovative technologies that can be integrated in people’s homes at a low cost (Fig. 1). The Philips Senior Mobility Monitor (SMM) is a research prototype that monitors activity and mobility in daily life regularly and unobtrusively. The Microsoft Kinect and PC deliver home-based exercise through a newly developed fall preventive exercise game (exergame) on the home television. A Knowledge Based System (KBS) integrates information from the SMM and Kinect/PC system to provide feedback on performance and progression, and enables secure data management together with a web-based interface for researchers. The Google TV set top box by Sony was used to integrate the SMM, Kinect/PC system and KBS and delivers the iStoppFalls program through an innovative interactive television (iTV) system. The iTV system enables access and facilitates communication between the user and the iStoppFalls program. Through the iTV system, the user communicates with the iStoppFalls program by voice, gesture, remote control or tablet (Fig. 2). The iStoppFalls program is accessed through the iStoppFalls menu (Fig. 3) which comprises of four main components: Training/Physical tests (balance exergames, strength exercises and fall risk assessment), Performance/Feedback (balance exergame results, strength exercise results, falls risk assessment results and SMM activity profile), Learning/Education (education fact sheets on falls risk factors) and Meeting point (private social network platform for iStoppFalls users) (Fig. 3). A training diary and study questionnaires can also be accessed via the tablet computer.Fig. 1Overview of the technologies used in iStoppFalls: (1) set top box (iTV), (2) mini-PC (exergame), (3) Kinect (gesture/voice), (4) Senior Mobility Monitor, (5) tablet (diary, control)Full size image
Fig. 2iStoppFalls interaction components through the iTV system. The user communicates with the iStoppFalls program by (1) remote control, (2) gesture, (3) voice or (4) tabletFull size image
Fig. 3The iStoppFalls menu is the main page for all users. Each number is associated to the image and provides an overview of the function (1). Page header. (2). Training: The area of training. The user can exercise or determine their risk of falling. (3). Performance: The user can view their feedback and results. (4). Meeting Point: The user can communicate with other users who use the system. (5). Falls & Health: The area of learning, educational material and information on fall risks in everyday life, and how to reduce this risk. (6). Gesture and Voice Recognition: Two buttons to activate the gesture and/or voice control. (7). Change User: The user can either log out of the program or start with a different user account (8). Help: The user can find help in this section for the most common problems and how to use the systemFull size image
Following a scoping literature review and expert consultations, the content of the iStoppFalls program was designed to predict and prevent falls using technological solutions: (i) fall risk assessment to identify common fall risk factors; (ii) exercise program to improve balance and muscle strength; (iii) feedback on performance, progression, general activity and change in falls risk factors; (iv) education on modifiable and non-modifiable falls risk factors; (v) social media platform to provide users with the option to communicate with and find support from other users.