“Ready Player Me” plans to make the “Passport for the Metaverse”. After getting $13 million in fundraising campaigns. The Avatar Tech company is focused to create avatars that can be used in a variety of virtual worlds.

“Ready Player Me” Plans Details:

A venture capital firm Tavet +Sten arranged a fundraising campaign “Ready Player Me” which completed around $13 Million. It is a metaverse initiative with a goal. To introduce avatars that can utilize over different virtual worlds.

The website also told that its avatars can be used in over 1000 apps and games. Additionally, they call themselves connective passports for the metaverse. The company told that currently, users are using their 1000 avatars in around 1000 games and apps.

Moreover, Avatar can sport in-game wearable, non-fungible tokens NFTs in form of different kinds of accessories, and digital clothes. Ready Player Me signed Collab programs with big brands like Dior and New Balance. Lined up the recent virtual fashion boom in the metaverse.

Where These Funds Will Further Utilize?

The company will use it raised to scale up its network of partners. And further, develop monetization tools to support game developers to sell NFTs and game avatar customization.

Other investors included the co-founder of GitHub, Tome Preston Warner, also Samsung Next Ventures, and Stefano Corazzam, the Adobes head of Augmented reality.

In a press release, the CEO Timmy Toke said that

“2021 year has been a break-out year for ready player me our avatar adoption platform has grown from 25 to 900 companies. By giving people avatars that travel across virtual worlds we can make the metaverse more connected.”

Please don’t forget to leave your comments and feedback. As well as you can connect with us on our social media accounts Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. Share your comments and thoughts with our community. Don’t forget! to leave your feedback in our comment section.

Disclaimer: We are not experts or financial advisors. Kindly, take your decisions at your own risk.

Visit www.nftstudio24.com for more articals nft/Crypto news and search NFT collections and we can also advertise your NFT collections..