Regular physical activity is one of the most important things you can do for your health.

Everyone can experience the health benefits of physical activity — age, skills, race, posture, or size does not matter. If you are unsure about working out or raising your fitness level because you are afraid of injury, the good news is that aerobic activity with moderate strength, such as walking, is safe for most people. Learn about the benefits of improving your brain health, weight management, reducing disease, strengthening your bones and muscles, and improving your ability to perform daily activities, If you have been inactive for a while, you may be wondering how to get started. Find more tips here to get started with a healthy weight loss workout. Learn more about what works and how exercise can improve your health. Immediate Benefits Some of the benefits of physical activity in brain health occur after a moderate exercise session. Benefits include improved thinking or understanding of children aged 6 to 13 as well as reducing temporary feelings of anxiety in adults. Regular physical activity can help keep your thinking, reading, and judgment skills sharp as you grow. It can also reduce the risk of depression and anxiety and help you to sleep better.

Do you want to reach or stay healthy? Both diet and exercise play an important role in maintaining a healthy weight, losing excess weight, or maintaining successful weight loss. You gain weight when you eat more calories through food and drink than the number of calories you burn, including those burned during exercise. It is important to balance calories. When it comes to weight management, people are very different in how much exercise they need. You may need to work harder than others to achieve or maintain a healthy weight.

Heart Disease Heart disease and stroke are the leading causes of death in the United States. Following the recommendations and getting at least 150 minutes a week working out in moderation can put you at a lower risk for these diseases. You can reduce your risk by continuing to do more physical activity. Regular exercise can lower your blood pressure and improve your cholesterol levels. Type 2 Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome Regular physical activity can reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is a combination of high fat, high blood pressure, very low cholesterol High Density Lipoproteins (HDL), high triglycerides, or high blood sugar. People are beginning to see the benefits in the level of exercise below the recommended 150 minutes a week. The extra amount of physical activity seems to reduce the risk even further.

As you grow older, it is important to protect your bones, joints, and muscles — they support your body and help you move. Keeping your bones, joints, and muscles healthy can help ensure that you are able to do your daily activities and exercise. Performing aerobic activity, strengthening muscles, and strengthening bones to a more moderate level can reduce bone loss with age. Hip fractures are a serious health condition that can have life-changing side effects, especially if you are an older adult. Physically active people have a lower risk of hip fractures than unemployed people. For older adults, exercise also reduces the risk of falls and fall injuries. Body systems that include more than one type of physical activity are very effective in reducing falls-related injuries. Various types of physical activity include aerobic, muscle strengthening, and moderate physical activity. Also, weight-bearing activities such as running, jogging, jogging, and strength training produce strength in the bones. These activities can help promote bone growth and bone strength and reduce the risk of injuries related to falls and fractures.