Does your child feel pressured when his exams approach nearer? Or even after preparing their level best, they still are not able to perform their best? The answers to these questions are simple. There are certain skills which are required to perform better. The exams are not just about mugging up the concepts, performing them in exams and forgetting them the next day! It might help your child to succeed in short-run but these are total disasters for long-run.

There are times when your child will wind up the particular syllabus of the respective course before his/her exam approaches, but there are times also when he/she is just not able to pace themselves for a particular exam. The problem also lies in your child’s interest area. You must have noticed that your children will be able to perform better in the subjects which they like and are able to relate to.

One more main reason why your child is not able to perform well even after weeks of preparation is your comparison of them among other students. This creates pressure and insecurity in your child. As a consequence, students feel they need to be ahead of others, if not then they think they will not be accepted as per societal norms.

These are the general perspectives which should be changed immediately if we want to ensure your child’s healthy academic growth. But, if we consider the exams season, then there is a need to have some study strategies or skills. These are the approaches which are applied to learning. It’s important to work hard when it comes to a result-oriented approach but now the students need to work smart as well so they can approach better towards their learning.

To apply these skills, they should be practiced as these skills are not developed overnight. These strategies will not only help them in the present time but also help them in attaining future goals as well. Now, what do they have to do when they are preparing for the exam season?

The organization of Study is important -

The students need to get themselves organized, this is the first step to effective study. Students should consider the basic organization skills — fundamentals such as where and when to study and the importance of developing the overall flow.

Allot time to study -

If the students manage their time badly then they will be less productive, which can lead to stress and anxiety. A personal study timetable, how to set the goals and prioritize the time is a must for students now. These are the smart tricks which help them to study smart without any pressure.

Read Effectively -

There are times when a student prepares, they likely read a lot of information, they need to use this time as effectively as possible by developing their reading skills to discover ways so that they can engage with their reading, understand concepts, put their ideas into perspective.

Revision Skills -

This is one of the most necessary and mandated one under study skills. If the students don’t take an overall view before giving the respective exam then he’ll be able to access their learnings. Revision helps them get a reality check of where they stand now in terms of their learning for better exam performance.

Want to know how to get better at exams?

Stride Ahead makes it easier for you to solve every obstacle that stands in your success!

Our holistic psychometric assessments, one-to-one mentorships, and career guidance will not only help you know yourself better so you can understand what kind of studying methods, routines, and styles suit you the best, but will also boost your skills beyond the school syllabus.

Curious? Visit our website: www.strideahead.in for more! Or, if you’re feeling too lazy after your exams, just drop us a DM on Instagram (@stride2success) and we’ll look into it right away!