Despite its lukewarm reception the budget deal congressional negotiators unveiled Tuesday was nothing short of a legislative hat-trick. In one bold stroke Congress replaced blunt and damaging sequestration cuts with targeted spending reduction and revenue increases; avoided a another crippling showdown; and got the Washington Post Editorial Board and I, to almost, sort of, just maybe agree on fiscal policy. The WaPo Board writes:

[The budget deal] does basically nothing to resolve the country’s long-term fiscal predicament. It does very little to correct the growing imbalance between discretionary spending and entitlements as a share of the federal budget. And even these modest policy achievements required the use of a budgetary gimmick or two. Yet the deal has one overriding virtue: It exists

Hallelujah. Score one for Realism.

Not only that, but it had Paul Ryan saying this

As a conservative, I deal with the situation as it exists. I deal with the way things are, not the way I may want them to be.

I nearly cried.

Maybe he didn't mean it. Maybe ideological brinkmanship will be back in vogue as soon as the holiday season is over. It almost doesn't matter. For one, brief shinning moment we were given license to dream again. I'll take it.

The Washington Post frets, as it always does, that failure to slash entitlements and raise taxes leaves us on the road to ruin, and that the burden of our debts will swallow America whole. Yet, this is less true now then at just about any time in our post war history.

The burden of our Federal Debt is as low as it has been in decades and is still shrinking.

The federal debt itself is fairly large compared to historical norms. However, interest rates are low and the government is locking in those interest rates over a longer and longer horizon. The combined actions of the Federal Reserve and Treasury are pushing the average maturity of the debt out to record lengths.

Its the interest or financing costs that matter. This is what the government has to extract from the economy in order to pay its bills.

Yes, you say, but what about future entitlement spending. Won't it bankrupt the country?

Not likely.

Social Security never was that big of deal. Lots of people get this and I'll just refer you to them.

Health care costs are slowing and thankfully more analysts are suggesting that the old projections of doom won't bare out. Its wonderful that folks are making this case and I'm grateful for them. However, the larger issue is that those projections and the conclusions drawn from them weren't sensible to begin with. They were fairly naive extrapolations based on the past growth in health care as a fraction of total spending.

When a new product or service becomes a major part of consumers lives, it always experiences a period of rapid growth, in which spending on that sector routinely outstrips GDP growth. That's how you get to be a major part. You have to grow routinely faster than the rest of the pie, in order to increase your share of the pie.

Despite this utterly typical occurence, its rare that spending on any sector grows much faster GDP for long. Some of this is pure arithmetic. As you grow in size your contribution to GDP growth grows, so you have to grow ever faster to continue outstriping GDP at the same rate as before. More importantly, however, folks generally don't want to spend all of their money in one place and so there is a maximum fraction of income they are willing to devote to any given product or service. As your product approaches that threshold its growth rate will slowdown. This is largely what we are seeing now with health care.

This is why high stakes grand bargains like that championed by the Post are so dangerous. For the most part the future takes care of itself better than you possibly could. This is how evolutionary processes work. They muddle along, adapting to circumstances as they find them and in the process creating systems vastly more complex than anything humans have ever consciously designed. Thinking you are going to beat evolution is hubris on the highest order.

Demanding that politicians try, sets the country and the world up for a contentious showdowns, in which the players stop at nothing to achieve a task that is hopelessly beyond their capabilities. This, not entitlement spending, is the road to ruin.