I started writing this post on my phone as I wandered up the aisles of Burlington, blown away by all the great finds spilling off the shelves. Who knew there were so many random and useful everyday products here like facial serums, jade rollers, candles, and more for a ridiculously low price?! Not trying to sound like a commercial or anything, but this place is truly amazing. Burlington isn’t even the only one. Places like Marshalls and TJ Maxx are other lifestyle sanctums with precious gems you didn’t know you needed for everything life. Don.t’. Sleep. On. Them!

I grew up in a household where money was extremely tight. My mom always did her best to provide and give me whatever I needed. A lot of the time, she would go to Marshalls and bring home obscure random finds for the house or for my room that I always loved. It was an adventure for her because Marshalls was always a hot mess. Things were all over the place; you could only find one shoe to a pair, products where half-used, or something you found one week wasn’t there the next. She’d always complain about the place but kept on going back Now, I know why. Not exactly, now, but I appreciate it more in my late 20’s.

Because of how money was at home, I became super frugal. Like frugal-frugal. I have an excel sheet of all my expenses because I am afraid of being broke or, rather. struggling to live comfortably. Seeing my mom stressed out because she was broke the same day she got paid gave me real anxiety. I didn’t realize I carried this skewed version of frugality until I reached the salary I have now and still say or act like I don’t have it. Every check, after bills and savings, I ration out whatever is leftover, contemplating if I can squeeze in a new foundation, hooded dryer, or a gel powder nails. I know your twenties are when you are supposed to live your best life carefree and happy, not really worrying too much about money. That’s fine and all, but there’s a certain point where you have to start or just be more responsible so you don’t eff yourself when you get past the illustrious 25. As I near thirty, I want to keep as much of my coin as possible. This brings me back to Burlington.

Funny story how I found myself in here. I was in the area to return an item to another store. I rather have my money than an item that serves no purpose. After getting my funds back, I walked past the storefront where I spotted this bomb-ass cobalt blue blazer. When I went in and check it out, the price was still not in my excel sheet, but I decided to keep looking around. Within minutes, I entered the wonderful world of beauty and cosmetics. I didn’t need the things I found but it was great to know that they are there. Hydrolanoic acid serums for $5, body scrubs for $7, belts, scarves, brand-name perfumes, and friggin’ granola.

This place is also great if you moved out or about to get your own place. There are endless aisles of home decor for the low-low. Pillows, paintings, wall art, curtain, random-ass golden piggies, and did I say candles already? I always loved candles but my fondness for them has definitely grown with age.