
2010 Mercedes-Benz S400 HybridSheryl Crow loves BlueTEC
We get weird things in the mail: love letters, bomb threats, talcum powder that's pretending to be anthrax, except it smells like diaper rash, so, you know, FAIL.
We also get press releases.
Press releases are frequently dull, occasionally informative, and nine times out of ten, hilarious. But one that we recently received from Mercedes-Benz totally takes ye olde cake. Just take a look at the first sentence:
Mercedes-Benz BlueTEC clean diesel technology, a Hollywood veteran for luxury eco-chic transportation, is getting support from a cast of new environmentally friendly vehicles including the Mercedes-Benz 2010 S400 HYBRID luxury sedan and ML450 HYBRID SUV.
See what they did there? They worked "Hollywood", "chic", and "cast" all into the same sentence. We're not sure if Mercedes is comparing itself to an actor or a movie, but the assumption clearly is that all actors and movies are classy, therefore Mercedes is classy by association.
The release goes on to mention people like Sarah Jessica Parker, Liv Tyler, Rosario Dawson, Christina Applegate, and Felicity Huffman. Seems a little MILF-heavy to us, but whatever: cougars gotta roll, too. At the non-cougar end of the spectrum, MB mentions Miley Cyrus' ML450 hybrid. which we'd hoped might belong to her mom (aka "The Competition"), but now we know the truth.
The best part, though, is the mention of Robert Downey Jr., who apparently used the S4oo hybrid  for personal transportation during a recent film shoot. Which is great, except the only car that people are going to associate Downey with for the next several years is likely to be the inescapable -- and decidedly non-hybrid -- Audi R8. So nice try, Mercedes. You get an A for effort.
If the Mercedes-Benz PR team is reading this, please note: We love Mercedes vehicles. They're well-built, reliable, and, more often than not, stylish, and they've been that way for decades. We understand that it's nice for your product to be seen in the company of A-listers, but you don't need to send out a smarmy release just to let us know that Molly Sims thinks they're cool.
Which, by the way: Molly Sims? You're MERCEDES-BENZ. Have some self-respect.
* * * * *
Mercedes-Benz S400 Hybrid Luxury Sedan Setting New Eco-Chic Standards in Hollywood
BlueTEC Clean Diesel, S400 HYBRID luxury sedan & ML450 HYBRID SUV make it Earth Day every day for Hollywood's elite
LOS ANGELES, April 19 /PRNewswire/ -- Mercedes-Benz BlueTEC clean diesel technology, a Hollywood veteran for luxury eco-chic transportation, is getting support from a cast of new environmentally friendly vehicles including the Mercedes-Benz 2010 S400 HYBRID luxury sedan and ML450 HYBRID SUV.
The expansion of Mercedes-Benz eco line-up is making it easy for celebs to have green transportation by offering the best of both worlds: supreme luxury, safety, and technology with solid environmental credentials.
S400 HYBRID
The new Mercedes-Benz 2010 S400 HYBRID luxury sedan is the vehicle of choice for A-list actors including Robert Downey Jr, who drove the luxury sedan when off-camera while shooting his upcoming film Due Date, and Gerard Butler, among others. The S400 Hybrid made its rounds during the award season as the chic transportation choice among a select group of celebs in the know.
The S400 HYBRID features the world's first lithium-ion battery in a production hybrid vehicle and the 275-hp V6 gasoline engine provides an impressive estimated 30 miles per gallon on the highway. The ML450 HYBRID mid-size SUV uses a 3.5-liter V6 gasoline engine, two electric motors and sophisticated electronics to produce more than 46 percent better fuel economy than a comparable V8-powered ML550 model, and is the vehicle of choice for international pop star Miley Cyrus.
BlueTEC clean diesel
Mercedes-Benz BlueTEC and ML Hybrid vehicles combine a smooth, quiet ride with fuel efficiency that delivers 20-30 percent higher fuel economy than a comparable gasoline engine making it the GREEN choice for a number of Hollywood's elite including Sarah Jessica Parker, Liv Tyler, Rosario Dawson, Christina Applegate, Molly Sims, Giles Marini, Felicity Huffman among others.
Today, Mercedes-Benz offers three BlueTEC SUVs - the R, ML and GL320 BlueTEC - and, will soon add the E350 BlueTEC sedan this fall. The term "BlueTEC" is derived from the innovative AdBlue process that dramatically reduces emissions and enables the diesel V6 engines to meet the stringent emissions standards of all 50 States. According to the EPA, the nation would save 1.4 million barrels of oil a day if just one third of all light-duty vehicles in the USA were state-of-the-art diesel vehicles.
An added bonus of driving green cars like the Mercedes-Benz BlueTEC and Hybrid, beyond not sacrificing space, safety or luxury, is the IRS alternative-powertrain tax credit. The current Diesel Tax Credits for owners of a 2009/10 Mercedes-Benz BlueTEC are $1,800 for the GL320/GL350; $1,550 for the R320/R350; and $900 for the ML320/ML350. Mercedes-Benz hybrid credits are $2200 for the ML450 and $1150 for the S400.
For 2010 Mercedes-Benz plans to offer a limited number of B-Class hydrogen fuel cell vehicles available for lease in California. Essentially an electric car that makes its own power on board, the new Mercedes-Benz F-Cell has a range of about 240 miles before needing refueling. Running on compressed hydrogen, the F-Cell boasts an equivalent fuel mileage of 86.6 city-highway combined miles per gallon and water is the F-Cell's only emission.
[PRNewswire via John]
