Why is my Instagram dead?

This has been no.1 question we all can hear from small business owners and entrepreneurs nowadays. If you notice some decline in engagement or your follower count don't worry, its happening to everyone recently. It is just very competitive on Instagram right now. However there are few specific steps that you can take in order to cut through the competition. If you are looking for promoting your business/creators accounts, lets walk you through each steps and knowledges.

Reasons of having hard time on growing or making sales on Instagram.

Every social media platform goes through a life cycle. It starts with launch then move with growth and monetization at its peak. Definitely Instagram went through the same phases.

Launch: At this time Instagram or any social media platform will be figuring out their value proposition's, doing all the updates and developing peoples interest. If you were a creator/business owners at this point, it would have been very good time to grow. Realistically, very less have been grown that way as many people did not even know Instagram even existed.

Growth: This is where Instagram starts to grow. The point where people could see lot of engagement and you could have gain followers supper quick. At this point if you were joined and got able to be monetized then there would be lots of sales and offers. We can identify few brands that were monetized by the Instagram and they have grown into huge organization nowadays. At current time when people say Instagram is not how it used to be they are actually talking about this phase which was around 4–6 years ago, The growth phase.

Monetization: The current phase of Instagram is monetization phase where their all focus is on profit. They are working with an advertisers to sell users attentions. They are keeping their exposure precious by electing small portion of the population to be the chosen ones, who are getting all the attention, exposure and growth.

How to be the chosen ones???

Yes, you can be the chosen ones by following these Tips:

Innovate a content that no one has ever seen before.

Instagram will be willing to help you if they can make the profit of of you. They are going to reward you with exposure if you keep the users on the platform for longer time. That will mean they can show more advertisement to the audience and collect money from the company that are willing to pay for those ads in Instagram. The unique content will let Instagram reach their goal and they will help you reach yours.

Do not post bland product photos. Products photos should be reserve for your online store. Show your product in a creative, different and a fun ways (videos and activities). Make people want to stop scrolling and watch your creativity. Those people down to line could be your followers and also a future customer. Don't try to be perfect, Perfection is good but to be different and make people feel real try adding human element.

2. Be consistent.

Being consistent tells Instagram that you are a trust worthy account and you are reliable account. If it is hard to stay consistent for you use scheduling tools they will help you be on your track. Set a dedicated time to plan and shoot your content. You can set a recurring event alarm turned on and start creating in a specific time. Be more patient with yourself if you are trying to be consistent.

Growth in Instagram is not happening overnight but if you post once a day that is you are giving yourself an opportunity to blow every time you post. Any piece of content can be that shot for you so trust the process and be patient and dedicated.

Don't be boring, be active and dynamic try to check out other platform and if you find something interesting bring that content with your powerful touch and present. Think like Instagram, try to know their agendas and use it to fly your business. for example; Instagram has created a reels features in a business view they were competition with TIKTOKs take that opportunities to create the reels content because they will definitely reward the early adapters think like them and move your business forward.

3.Stop making selfish content;

Selfish content is anything that you post for your own agenda or your own ego or your own business. It is really easy to fall in a trap of making content to fulfil your needs. Everyone might have done it before but we should be focus in on providing some short of values. You might not want to say “Big product sale”, “New product drop” assume that people don't care about your products but they care about seeing the content that is good. After catching the viewers attention then you should think about that later. Actually this is exactly how Instagram did with their platform. First got the users attention then monetize it.

With all these tips go flourish your business/creators account in Instagram. Remember patience, consistence, believe in what's coming up for you is great and never quit.