AbstractAdvances in gene transfer technology have greatly expanded the opportunities for developing immunotherapy strategies for breast carcinoma. Genetic immunotherapy approaches include the transfer of genes encoding cytokines and costimulatory molecules to modulate immune function, as well as genetic immunization strategies which rely on the delivery of cloned tumor antigens. Improved gene transfer vectors, coupled with a better understanding of the processes that are necessary to elicit an immune response and an expanding number of target breast tumor antigens, have led to renewed enthusiasm that effective immunotherapy may be achieved. It is likely that immunotherapeutic interventions will find their greatest clinical application as adjuvants to traditional first-line therapies, targeting micrometastatic disease and thereby reducing the risk of cancer recurrence.IntroductionA central issue in the management of women with breast cancer is the prevention of metastatic disease. Although primary surgical treatment is generally effective at controlling local disease, many patients have micrometastases at the time of diagnosis. A substantial proportion of women diagnosed with breast cancer will have a subsequent recurrence of disease, and it is in these women in whom significant morbidity and mortality occurs. Adjuvant therapies with hormones or chemotherapy have resulted in a modest decrease in the relapse rate, but novel approaches are needed. A primary difficulty lies in defining a treatment that will effectively destroy disseminated tumor cells without significant toxicity to the patient. Immunotherapy attempts to achieve this goal by recruiting the host's immune system to identify and destroy aberrant tumor cells. Studies of the interaction of tumor cells with cells of the immune system has led to the development of novel, more rational strategies for immunotherapy.Cancer immunity and evasion of immune responseIt has long been apparent that tumor cells exhibit some degree of immunogenicity, and attempts to enhance the immune response to tumor cells date back more than 90 years [1,2]. Cancer immunotherapy strategies are based on eliciting or augmenting a specific host immune response to tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) that are present on tumor cells. Such approaches are particularly aimed at enhancing the function of the cellular immune response, as it is believed that killing of tumor cells is primarily mediated through the action of T cells.There is considerable evidence that the immune system can recognize tumor cells by virtue of TAAs, and a limited immune response to many of these antigens is detectable in patients. Breast cancer patients exhibit both circulating antibodies and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that are specific for breast tumor antigens, including HER-2/neu (erbB-2) [3,4], MAGE-1 [5], and MUC-1 [6]. In addition, both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells have been identified as components of breast tumor infiltrating lymphocytes [7]. Despite these specific immune responses, tumor cells manage to evade detection and/or destruction. Recent advances in tumor immunology [8*] have provided a more complete understanding of the interaction of tumors with the immune system, and have delineated the diverse mechanisms by which tumor cells circumvent the immune response.Tumor cells themselves may exhibit altered properties as a means to avoid T-cell recognition. These can include downregulation of expression of specific antigens [9,10], or major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules [11,12]. Defects in the antigen-processing machinery, specifically the peptide transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) molecules, may lead to an overall decrease in immunogenic peptides on the tumor cell surface [13]. In breast cancer, downregulation of TAP expression with concurrent loss of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression is common in high-grade lesions [14*]. As an alternative mechanism, tumors may influence T-cell responsiveness by secreting immunosuppressive molecules such as interleukin (IL)-10 and transforming growth factor-β [15,16], or by directly killing Fas-positive infiltrating T cells through expression of the Fas ligand [17,18]. The interaction of Fas with Fas ligand induces apoptosis in the infiltrating lymphocytes. Finally, a common reason that T cells do not respond to tumors may be that TAAs are presented by antigen-presenting cells in such a way that anergy and tolerance is induced, rather than T-cell activation [19,20].The importance of appropriate immunostimulatory molecules during antigen presentation has recently been appreciated. The long-standing immune surveillance theory holds that immune responsiveness is based on the recognition of self versus nonself [21], and that tolerance to self is established in the neonatal period. That theory has been challenged because it has become more apparent that the environment in which an antigen is presented is critical in determining the type and extent of immune response induced [22]. The danger theory [23] suggests that it is the release of alarm signals, induced by cells experiencing stress, that promotes a potent immune response. Therefore, the presence of costimulatory molecules that activate T cells during antigen presentation is critical to the development of a robust immune response. Effective antigen-presenting cells express the costimulatory molecule B7 in conjunction with the antigen on the cell surface. This molecule also engages the T cell, providing the necessary signal to promote activation. The effectiveness of this response is modulated by the presence of cytokines, with stimulatory cytokines such as IL-12 enhancing T-cell response (Fig. 1). Without appropriate stimulatory signals, T cells encountering an antigen move to anergy or undergo apoptosis.This new understanding of the potential defects in the elicitation of tumor-specific immune response has led to the development of strategies that address these deficiencies. Furthermore, these observations suggest that it should be possible, with proper manipulation of the immune cells and the local cytokine milieu, to induce an immune response to both self and nonself molecules. As the processes required for autologous tumor rejection become better characterized, new strategies are being developed to potentiate the immunogenicity of tumor cells.