Photography: Jesús Orrico; courtesy the architect

Fran Silvestre Arquitectos unfurl an aesthetic drama with their interiors for this dental clinic in Valencia, exploring sophistication through minimal design and stark contrasts…

The 74 sq. m. clinic resides within a building that dates to the beginning of the last century, located in the heart of the city. The contemporary design holds in high regard comfort, personalised patient care and clinical needs, all adapted into the layout of the clinic.

The entrance hall creates an interesting perception of space, structuring the irregular plan. In alignment with the firm’s signature design style, the space reveals the Fran Silvestre trademark monochrome palette, clean geometries, ornamentation-free decor and efficient functionality.

The design unifies the colour of all the surfaces — wall, floor and ceiling using an innovative continuous ribbon-like band developed by the studio, that runs continuously across the space constituting a bench here, a counter there… Lacquered wooden panels, wall paint, counter tops, faucets and push buttons mirror the material’s dark tone.

Natural and ambient light lend character and add lightness to the space, the bright light intentionally contrasting with the dark grey tones. Consequently, the dental care devices — stand out as the protagonists — under focus as a result of the ambient contradiction.

Undeniably, the space has a profound impact on the patient’s psychological health. The dark, muted interior bathed in soft, ambient light instills calm, relieving stress and anxiety — rendering a positive clinical experience. The atmosphere exudes an understated elegance that stems from the moderation of space, form and material, where the built and unbuilt merge seamlessly to engage the user in a sensory experience.

Architecture: Fran Silvestre Arquitectos

Interior design: Alfaro Hofmann

Fran Silvestre | Principal in Charge

Pablo Camarasa | Principal in Charge

Location: Valencia, Spain