Hello, Elsa!

An uninvited visitor is coming. Tropical Storm Elsa is leaving Cuba and knocking on Florida’s door. The Keys are currently experiencing strong winds and rain.

Tropical storm winds are 39 to 73 mph; anything above that is a hurricane. Elsa’s currently at 60 mph. Over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico, her wind speeds will certainly increase — perhaps to hurricane force. Fingers crossed that doesn’t happen.

The track predictions for Elsa are in agreement that she’s headed to our area of the state. Fortunately, I live inland enough that the winds will surely decrease before reaching us. Still, they’ll be formidable with expected gusts 45 mph or above.

Our sandy soil is waterlogged from days and days of rain. Gusty winds could easily topple trees with loosened roots. Without a doubt, tree branches will go flying. As beautiful as Spanish moss looks dangling from tree branches, it absorbs a heck of a lot of water. Right now, a minor gust of 25 mph will send those heavier-than-usual branches flying.

Photo by Jessica Furtney on Unsplash

My day will be busy with storm preparations. I have potted plants, wind chimes, birdfeeders, plant stands, and lawn furniture to move to protected areas, and I’m considering taping a few windows. Plus, I have to work for a client this afternoon.

Consider this a warning that I will be unavailable for publishing during much of today. The storm will come ashore west of us sometime tonight or early tomorrow. We’ll be in the weather-heavy eastside of Elsa, meaning we’ll experience some of the worst weather she has to offer — expected winds of 45 mph and higher, 3 to 5 inches of rain, flooding, and possible tornados.

There’s certainly a strong possibility we’ll have power outages. After Hurricane Irma in 2017, which was a tropical storm when she arrived here, we were without power for 36 hours. So, I may not be able to publish for the next day or two.

Well wishes and prayers, if you’re the praying sort, are welcome.

And, since I can’t do a darn thing about Elsa, I’ll listen to some Jimmy.