As a grade 12 student applying to universities this year, I understand how overwhelming the process can be. One task that I found quite daunting was researching the specifics of the programs I was interested in. Although this is important in shortlisting programs to apply to, it’s also crucial to do thorough research when picking between programs after you receive acceptances.

I’ve decided to provide an overview of the Western Medical Sciences (BMSc) program, a popular route for aspiring pre-medical students across Canada. Having applied myself, I definitely know the feeling of confusion while scrolling through seemingly endless webpages about the various aspects of the program. In our guide, we’ll be going over the admissions process, the coursework of the program, unique educational opportunities, and more!

Admissions

Unlike some other health science/life science programs, the BMSc program does not require any writing supplement. You simply submit your grades.

Tip: On OUAC, ensure that all of your grades are accurate! You don’t want schools to be seeing incorrect grades. If there are inconsistencies between your transcript and your grades on OUAC, be sure to contact your guidance counselor to get this fixed ASAP.

Western Med Sci, like other Ontario university programs, requires top 6 courses from grade 11 and 12. According to the program’s website, here are the following requirements:

Grade 12U Biology

Grade 12U Calculus and Vectors

Grade 12U Chemistry

Grade 12U English

In addition, students are advised to take Grade 12U Physics. It is not a requirement, but will be helpful, as BMsc students must complete one credit of university-level physics in order to be eligible for the Medical Sciences program in third year.

It is important to note that when you apply to Western Med Sci as a grade 12 student, you are not accepted into itself. Admission to the BMSc program occurs after your second year of undergrad. The first two years of the program are called Medical Sciences 1 and Medical Sciences 2 respectively. In each of these years, you must satisfy certain coursework and grade requirements in order to gain admission to the Medical Sciences program in third year. The specific requirements for admission can be found here.

Coursework

The first year of the program is spent studying a variety of foundational medical science disciplines. In Medical Sciences 1, you must take a total of 5 credits worth of coursework in biology, chemistry, physics, calculus, math/applied math, as well as a non-science credit. It should be noted that physics can be taken in the summer after Medical Sciences 1 or in the following year, but is strongly recommended to be completed in Medical Sciences 1. Specific information regarding coursework in Medical Sciences 1 can be found here.

In Medical Sciences 2, your coursework is dependent on two things:

The module you plan on pursuing in year 3, when the Medical Sciences program officially begins. The admission requirements for the Medical Sciences program.

Medical Sciences 2 is similar to Medical Sciences 1, in that you complete coursework in foundational science courses. In addition to completing the admission requirements for the BMSc program, you also begin completing coursework focusing on the module you plan on pursuing in year 3. There are some modules that require you to specialize in year 2, such as neuroscience. However, most only require you to specialize in year 3. Details regarding Medical Sciences 2 course offerings can be found here.

On your OUAC, you will be asked to indicate a Subject of Major Interest. Your Subject of Major Interest is the module you would like to pursue in the BMSc program. There are a number of modules offered in the BMSc program, ranging from biochemistry to medical health informatics to pharmacology. There are also different types of modules that can be completed, including honors specializations, double majors, and a specialization in Interdisciplinary Medical Sciences. Specific information regarding the different types of modules in the BMSc program can be found here.

Tip: When filling out the Subject of Major Interest section on the OUAC, do not get too worried about what you pick! It is simply for informational purposes, and does not hold any bearing on your application. The subject you pick is not set in stone either. In fact, you don’t need to finalize your module until after year 2!

In Year 3 of the program, your coursework is dependent on the module and type of module you’ve selected. Your coursework will be much more specialized in the latter two years of the program, as you have already covered foundational material in Medical Sciences 1 and Medical Sciences 2. You can find more specific information here about year 3 coursework based on the various modules! Again, don’t worry about picking a module now, as it is finalized after year 2 and can be changed any time before that.

Finally, in year 4 of the program, you complete any remaining courses that are necessary to satisfy the requirements of your specific module. In addition, you must complete any remaining graduation requirements to earn a BMSc degree. If you are completing an honors specialization module, you are required to complete a research project under the guidance of a faculty member. Overall, like year 3, your coursework is dependent on your module’s focus and type.

Alternate Pathways Within BMSc

There are two unique educational opportunities with the BMSc program I wanted to highlight.

The first is the Scholar’s Electives program. An interdisciplinary stream focused on academic enrichment, the program consists of 50–75 high-achieving students per year who receive unique opportunities to complete additional coursework and participate in undergraduate research and other unique learning experiences, in addition to their Honors degree coursework. Students who are applying to Medical Sciences are eligible for the Scholar’s Electives program. A minimum top 6 average of 90% is required, and there is a supplementary application required.

The second pathway is the combined BMSc/HBA program. The 5-year program allows students to earn a BMSc as well as an HBA from the Richard Ivey School of Business. Like the Medical Sciences program, students begin the HBA program in year 3. Specific information regarding the dual-degree program can be found here.

Final Tips

That was a lot of information! We recommend for you to check out some of the links we added in the article for more specific information regarding the various topics we discussed.

University applications are undoubtedly overwhelming and confusing at times. We’ve provided some advice that may help you move through this process smoothly: