Do You Want To Grow Your Own Food? Here Are Three Tips To Help You Get The Best Produce From Your Garden Alexa Dave Dec 19, 2020·2 min read

You might be tempted to scroll past because you live in the city and there is absolutely no way that you can grow your own food.

Think again.

Having the capacity to grow your own healthy food has more to do with technique than land space — and the best part is that it doesn’t cost much to get started.

For years food security has been a global concern. There are still millions of people around the globe that suffer from hunger. In fact, 822 million people suffer from undernourishment and statistics say that a child dies from hunger every 10 seconds.

While these statistics might not hit home or stir any emotion in your heart, it may be only a matter of time before it does.

Photo by veeterzy on Unsplash

The earth’s population has continued to grow but the rate of food production has not. In fact, technology has stepped into the limelight and some governments haven’t been investing enough resources into their agricultural sectors.

Having the skills needed to grow your own food is essential. The following are three tips to help you get on the right track.

Get the right soil

Depending on what you’re trying to grow, the right soil is important. You can do some research on your intended product, and then head down to your nearest plant store to get some if you don’t have space in your backyard.

If you’re using the soil in your backyard, get soil testing kits to help you determine how much fertilizer or compost you need to add to optimize your harvest.

Plant a variety of foods

You want to maximize the soil you have and plant a variety of fruits and vegetables. Not only will this give you a variety of food but it will expand your knowledge base and make you a seasoned gardener.

Schedule your crops

Many fruits and vegetables have a season in which they flourish. As such, you must take the time to familiarise yourself with the season and the turnaround time so that you can get the best harvest of every food in your garden.

Photo by freestocks on Unsplash

These three tips aren’t the only effective ways of growing your own food.

You can invest in agro-businesses too.

If you reside in Cradock, South Africa and you want to increase food security in your community, Amali Farming Enterprises is ready to partner with you to grow healthy food!