The Leoshine Series has been my magnum opus for more than 20 years. She began with a dream and a vision about Abigail and David.

Some people “plot”, and some are “pantsters.” The plotters have every scene or chapter of the story listed and ordered before they begin “fleshing out the bones.” The pantsters put their pens on the paper, or fingers on the keyboard with a vague sense of a character or event, and let it all spill out. Order comes later.

Leoshine occurred to me in scenes in no chronological order. Over the years, I “quilted” them together and wrote the stuff in between to connect one event to the next.

Recently, I sent Travis Williams a snippet of a scene that contained Aeolian writing. Travis created the amazing Aeolian Alphabet, available as the Tassanara Font, especially for the Leoshine series. He is interested in all mentions of writing in my manuscript.

“She dreamed of a world of greenery. Flowers of shapes and colors unknown garnished the bushes and tree trunks on every side. Flying creatures dressed for iridescent frivolity fluttered in the air as thick as swarms. When they brushed against her cheek, they left kisses and blessings.

A figure walked far ahead. She drew nearer. He, yes, it was a tall man. She could not see his face. He knew she followed and, without acknowledging her, he allowed her to come gradually closer.

A thick tapestry with swirls and curlicues lined up across his back. For a long while she delighted to gaze on the design and wonder where she had seen it before. Book. She sighed and looked up to see him turn toward her.

The freedom lasted briefly into her waking." From Leoshine, Princess Quarry, Book Two of the Leoshine Series by N. MacCameron

Travis asked: “Did you write that before we created Tassanara?”

An example of Tassanara Font. For the complete key, sign up @ https://leoshine.micandpen.com/members-only/

When I replied that I wrote that scene about fifteen years before he twirled his magical scrap of wire (interview here), he responded,

“T hat’s epic in the most fundamental meaning of the word. Makes you wonder what exactly it is that you were inspired to describe as text in a book in your writing or what exactly it is that I was inspired to draw as glyphs for letters to make those words in the book. It makes you wonder because there’s an inversion here. The effect precedes the cause.

A writer’s life is full of wonder. I am delighted and awestruck to see this connection and revelation in Leoshine. Thank you, Travis!