Who is LXG?

LXG is a gaming club based in Brisbane, Australia. At LXG we believe in creating a family-friendly gaming space tabletop gamers of all ages. Our activities revolve around the face to face interaction offered by board games old and new. We manage Brisbane’s (if not Australia’s) largest board game library to ensure that we have something for all tastes.

The club library has over 300 individual titles, and additional copies of popular games. For a full list go to the Games section. In addition to this long list, club members bring their own games in for people to play, meaning that newer releases are also available.

We have over 20 of 8′ x 4′ tables & terrain for fantasy and science-fiction miniature wargames, as well as tables suitable for smaller games.

Meetings have a relaxed & social atmosphere. They are an ideal time to learn the rules of a new game, or practice for a tournament.

We have something on offer for gamers of all levels, from newcomers to tournament veterans.

Meetings

LXG meetings take place once per calendar month. Meetings last from 9am to 5pm.

2014 Meeting Schedule

26th October

23rd November

7th December

2015 Meeting Schedule

January 18th

February 14th and 15th (Summer Legends Tournament Weekend)

March 15th

April 26th

May 17th

June 21st

July 19th

August 15th – 16th (Winter Legends Tournament Weekend)

September 20th

October 25th

November 15th

December 13th

Our meeting location is the Woolloongabba Bridge Club at 67 Ipswich Road, Wooloongabba

There is limited underground parking accessed directly from Ipswich Road as shown in this image:

Otherwise there is a Bridge Club parking area accessible via Wilton Street as shown here

Memberships

LXG offers different levels of membership

Family memberships are for up to two adults and up to four children, to a maximum of five individuals

Individual memberships are for single adults

Concession memberships are for children (ie under 18s)

For those who don’t want to take out a membership, there is a casual visitor’s fee of $7 per person per meeting. Note the visitor’s fee does not apply on your first visit!

Duration

All memberships last until March of a given year, and should be renewed each April. If you join or renew after April, you will pay a reduced rate as shown in the rate table below.

Rates

Type April May June July August September October Family $72 $66 $60 $54 $48 $42 $36 Individual $60 $55 $50 $45 $40 $35 $30 Concession $36 $33 $30 $27 $24 $21 $18

Type November December January February March Family $30 $24 $18 $12 $6 Individual $25 $20 $15 $10 $5 Concession $15 $12 $9 $6 $3

All three levels of membership give you access to use our games on club days, and record your progress and successes through A Game of Games. Individual and family membership holders may also borrow games from the club library between meetings.

Memberships last until March of each year, and must be renewed in April. If you join after April, your membership rate is reduced on a pro rata basis.

We also offer gaming memberships to existing members who cannot attend all meetings over a year due to work or other commitments. Gaming members pay $10 for each meeting attended. Details here.

Special Events

Summer Legends. Held each February we have a two day meeting, with gaming events running over the two days.

Winter legends. Held each August we have a two-day meeting, with gaming events running over the two days.

Winter Retreat. The club’s marquee event with places for 50 gamers to go somewhere cold during winter and play as many games as possible in one week-end! Winter Retreat 2012 details.

Activites Outside Club Meetings

LXG is an outreach club, and we are always happy to show up at outside events andpush the wonders of board games. LXG has frequently run board game events, or a casual gaming lounge at larger gaming events such as GenCon and AusCon. If you’d like an LXG presence at your event please get in touch with us through our Facebook page.

LXG also runs MSQ and Young Care gaming nights, and we’d love your involvement too!

Finally

LXG would like to acknowledge and thank the Queensland Government & the Gambling Community Benefit Fund.

Advertisements