Dreams can happen

But the dream became a reality when the World Food Programme (WFP) trained 50 women in Kashka-Suu village, including Jiidegul, on home-based dairy processing. With support from Japan, WFP provides skills training to women in the poorest regions across the country to help them create a source of income and afford healthy and necessary foods for their families.

Kashka-Suu is located on the foothills of Padysh-Ata pasture that is full of cattle during the summer months making it the perfect place to host the milk processing training.

“I always thought that making cheese was difficult …it turns out that mozzarella is not as difficult…it only takes 3 hours.”

During the training, Jiidegul learnt how to make cheese with supplies already available in her village. “I always thought that making cheese was difficult and that it required certain skills as well as professional equipment,” she said. “It turns out that mozzarella is not as difficult to make if you know the technique — it only takes 3 hours.”

Teaching food making; lifelong food assistance

Jiidegul is cutting freshly prepared cheese that she learned how to make it herself after receiving a WFP training on dairy processing. Photo: WFP/Maksim Shubovich

The 4-day training covered basic milk processing skills, including cheese making, developing yogurt starters and sour cream processing. After successfully completing the training, every participant received food assistance for her family including 150 kg of flour and 15 litres of oil — enough to cover the family for six months until they start making money using the skills they learnt.

A self-help group was established among the women who participated in the training. They produced the first samples of their dairy products including cheese, kurut and creams. Their products were tested and by residents who liked them.

Such locally-made dairy products are indispensable in the local diet and are considered a healthier option compared to industrial products that use preservatives and artificial flavour enhancers.