I hate Tuesdays. They are by far the longest most tedious day of every week. I complain about having to sit through a 2 hour staff meeting every Tuesday morning, but today I realized that I am lucky that I have the opportunity to sit through these meetings; because that means I am part of a team. This leads me to my point of the importance of having a purpose.

Everyone needs a reason to get up in the morning. Whether that reason be work, children, pets…etc. Think about a time that you didn’t have a reason to get up in the morning? How did it feel? Why do you think that it felt that way? How did you feel when that time of your life was over and you had a reason to get up again?

In most cases opportunity does not present itself. You need to work for the things that you want and go out and get it. Most successful people have not had things handed to them on a silver platter, they have gone out and earned them. This is called motivation. Unfortunately, not everyone has found their motivation. These are the people who don’t go out and get what they want, the people who wait for something to turn up in front of them and unfortunately these are the people who end up in the same spot for the rest of their life. These are the people who get “Stuck”. These are the people who need the most help.

I have never had things handed to me, I have always worked hard and moved my way up in every job that I have ever had. Why? Because, I was motivated to have a better life than I had. At this point in my life, I have stability and a job that I can deal with going to everyday.

No matter how discouraging your life may be, Find your motivation. If there is an obstacle standing in your way, find a way to move that obstacle. Everyone has something that they care about, use that and turn it into a motivator to do better. Without motivation, you aren’t going to move forward in any area of your life.

Find your purpose, find your motivation and move forward. The only person who can change your life, is you. Don’t let life pass by and wish you had done more. There is no time better than the present. Take the bull by the horns and go out there and get it done.