The number of visitors and visits rushing into your website are to count as website traffic. More traffic, more money — this is a very common strategy, and this how website owners introduce people to their business and website.

Rather than making money, most of the businesses focus on expanding their business — hire more people, increase productivity, increase domains, and expand business globally.

For driving traffic to your website, you must keep some important keys in your mind, which will be explained below thoroughly.

There are many International standards for measuring how much attention your website is getting and how much it should get until now. There are many sources of getting huge traffic: the basic and best source is organic traffic, paid traffic, referral traffic, and social traffic.

Now the question is,

Which type of Website which gets more traffic?

To make your website eye-catchy, you need to work on the content you are providing to your audience. Now the question will arise in your mind is how can we work on our content to make it visible in search engines?

According to the survey, 85 percent of the respondents gained the content for blog posts through organic research, while 61 percent of the respondents used the data for creating infographics. So,more attractive content you post on your website, the more rise on graphs of traffic you will gain.

Interaction with the audience is the key to the success of your website. It’s been observed in an online survey that the audience is more focused on:

Written Content: 40.4 percent of written content is preferred by the respondents of an online survey. E.g. Blogs post, articles, surveys.

40.4 percent of written content is preferred by the respondents of an online survey. E.g. Blogs post, articles, surveys. Video Content: 34.3 percent of video content is an interest of respondents.

34.3 percent of video content is an interest of respondents. Graphical Content: 25.3 percent of the respondents thought graphics bring more traffic.

How to get higher Google rankings?

Photo by Myriam Jessier on Unsplash

Use LSI keywords in your blog: Google is getting smarter day by day and now using synonyms of the title of your blog won’t help you get rankings anymore. So, by understanding Google’s algorithm and its strategies, work according to it by using Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) keywords in your blog to gain viewers on your website.

is getting smarter day by day and now using synonyms of the title of your blog won’t help you get rankings anymore. So, by understanding Google’s algorithm and its strategies, work according to it by using Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) keywords in your blog to gain viewers on your website. Targeted Audience: Make sure that the audience is right for your website, if you’re not getting the right audience on your website then the drive of traffic is useless for your business.

Make sure that the audience is right for your website, if you’re not getting the right audience on your website then the drive of traffic is useless for your business. Mobile-friendly interface: Stats shows that 58 percent of the visits on websites are from Mobile phones. Since the amount is non negligible, build your website in a way that it functions on mobile phone devices properly.

Social Media and Website Traffic:

Photo by Austin Distel on Unsplash

“What social media has to do with website traffic?”

Probably this question clicked in your mind while reading the above line. Well, we all are familiar with the Social Media websites:

These are the most popular and used by billions of people around the world.

4.57 billion people now use the internet,

346 million fresh users have joined the online community within the last year.

By using these platforms you can engage people and educate them about your business and your offerings. This is the way you can bring them to your website by offering giveaways and gift hampers.

Buying traffic to your Website:

Before taking any steps for buying traffic, you must know your targeted audience. Service providers will ask you what your targeted audience is and from what countries you want traffic.

Traffic Box is the high ranking Website that will provide you targeted visitors from their advertising network in less time.

Buying traffic will save your money from spending on marketing materials such as banners, flyers, and online advertisements on social media platforms.

Blogs section on your Website:

Photo by Matthew Guay on Unsplash

Having a blog section helps your website to provide more content to Google. The fresher the website, the more It will gain traffic. Posting your old blog posts with some upgrading from time to time would be a step towards success.

Posting SEO optimized content will bring your website tons of organic visitors.

You can use blogs to showcase your products and services that you are providing.

Try to post blogs on Evergreen topics. The topic that is always relevant to the visitors, instead of topics related to technology or news. Some evergreen topics are:

How to make tea — no matter how advanced our lives become, but people will love to know how to make tea.

How to lose weight fast — it doesn’t matter if it’s 2020 or 2050, people will always need to lose weight as fast as possible.

People will never stop searching such topics.

Eye-Catchy Content:

Photo by Amélie Mourichon on Unsplash

People attract content that has its graphical or pictorial presentation along with the written content.

Using Infographics (Information stapled with graphics) — a very common approach to make your content visible among other websites by adding a touch of pictures and videos. It will help in getting a higher rank among Google searches.

Tools for designing infographics:

You can make customized free online infographics for your website by clicking here.

Conclusion:

Well, focus on the quality of the website, its speed, and the response rate too. The audience must feel heard in the reviews or comment section, it’ll leave a good impression of your customer care services. By applying the above mentioned techniques and strategies, you’ll gain insane traffic on your website in a quick time. Focus on your goal and knowing your targeted audience will work as an enormous benefit to your business.