Speak With Confidence this Graduation Season

Graduation is one of the most important events for students, families, and friends alike. Have you ever been to a graduation or graduation party and were in awe of a speech in honor of the graduate or graduating class? Have you ever heard a terrible, awkward graduation speech? A good graduation speech has empathy, charisma, excitement, and most importantly, pride. Moreover, how it is delivered is also crucial! This article will break down your role in a graduation and how a great speech can make this memorable day all the more special!

For the Student Graduating:

Public speaking can be frightening, but it doesn’t have to be. Speaking in front of your classmates, friends, and family can show how much you’ve accomplished academically. First and foremost, people are attending your ceremony to celebrate you! They have watched you succeed from your earliest years of academics to the summation of your academic career. Today is about you! That may seem frightening to tackle in a speech, but you must shift your mindset to deliver a great speech. Instead of seeing your anxiety as detrimental, use that anxiety as energy to fuel confidence and inspiration. One way to do this is to structure your speech in the most basic form: beginning, middle, and end. While you may think giving it this structure will make your speech boring, it actually gives your audience a chance to see your academic abilities and gives them something easy to follow. Secondly, keeping the speech on the shorter side will keep your audience engaged and quell your nerves if you’re afraid of boring them. One final tip (and most crucial) is to practice your speech as many times as you can out loud.

For the Parent/Friend Giving a Speech:

Don’t you want to show the graduate how proud you are of them? A speech is the perfect way to convey your pride and excitement for the graduate’s future. One essential point to hit is that even as a friend or parent, you are an exceptional source of knowledge and comfort for the graduate. Although they learned immensely in their schooling, you and the graduate have taught each other so much, whether it be through long talks, experiences shared, or a common hobby, etc. Pull in some of your favorite memories of the graduate, what specifics from their academic career you are proud of, and why they are special to you. If you feel nervous giving a speech, imagine how the graduate feels! They are ending a significant chapter of their lives and starting anew. A comforting and confident speech can settle their nerves and allow them to relish in their achievements! Remember: as amazing as your speech can be, it is about them. The idea that the speech is more for the graduate, and that all eyes are truly on the graduate should relieve some nerves.

For the Observer of a Graduation Speech:

When you’re watching a graduation speech, take note of a few feelings. Notice if you are engaged. Are you daydreaming, checking your phone, or making small talk in the audience? If so, focus back in on the speech and notice what the speaker is doing. How long is the speech? Is it pertinent? Is the speaker confident on stage? Make a mental (or literal) note of what is pulling you towards the speech. If you’re fully engaged in a speech, the speaker is confident, poised, and relating to the audience. By observing your feelings as an audience member in relation to a speaker and their speech, this will help you in your own public speaking. Finally, a nice comment to the graduate or their parents goes a long way. Even a simple but heartfelt “congrats, I am proud of you!” and a hug is great. If you have known the graduate or their family for a long time, you can give an example of a memory you have with them or how you’ve seen them grow. An example being, “It’s amazing to have seen you grow from a high school freshman to your graduation! You are going to do great things!”. You can list off certain academic or personal achievements from their past years, or their prosperous futures (the college or masters school they’re going to, a new job or job offer, etc.).

Through all of this, always remember to speak slowly and articulately. Simon Sinek, one of the most-watched TED Talk presenters of all time and the author of Start With Why and Leaders Eat Last, always suggests speaking slowly. Sinek is supposedly shy and an introvert, yet he became an incredibly successful speaker!

Whether you’re just watching a graduation speech or giving one, this speech can be an unforgettable summation of a remarkable achievement. Public speaking connects people, especially on joyous occasions. By utilizing these tips, public speaking can be exciting, not fear- inducing!