Oh my, who would have thought it would take me until my junior year of college to start a blog? Not me — or anyone for that matter. Writing a blog has always been in the back of my mind since high school. I have tried to create one on multiple occasions, but couldn’t imagine why anyone would read anything written by someone with mediocre grades in their English classes and humor that tends to, not just fly, but yeet itself over everyone’s head. Regardless, here I am.

I’ll initially start this introduction with informing my sparse readers that this is a blog started with the purpose of receiving credit towards my college course this semester (Intro to Technical Writing for you nosey folk). With that being said, I will write about material from my textbooks every now and then. Please don’t imagine textbooks that are War and Peace 2.0, but regular books you’d find in Barnes and Noble (Oops, bad example — they sell War and Peace for $14 y’all). Anyway, I find them quite entertaining and often gain a chuckle when reading them. I’ll list them at the end for clarity. **

Okay, back on topic! My name is Sarah and I’m a student at Weber State University studying Professional and Technical Writing with a double minor in Literary Editing and German (jawohl!). I studied abroad in Germany back in the summer of ‘69! I’m kidding; it was the summer of 2019. It was an extraordinary experience and I’m planning on going back next winter. My hobbies include, but are not limited to, reading, watching Korean dramas, and playing the piano. I’m currently reading the Lord of the Rings trilogy, but I haven’t gotten very far so no opinion yet. I love the movies, though (Legolas, my bae).

Despite this being part of my class, I have a deep passion for grammar and its importance. I’m hoping to touch base with common grammatical questions such as: “What’s the difference between affect and effect?”, “How do I use a semicolon?”, and my recent favorite, “Is it octopuses or octopi?” For clarification, it’s octopi — please don’t say octopuses, omg.

I must mention that I’m human who will make grammatical mistakes in my grammar-based blog. Even though I am writing this in a casual voice, I will do my best to use correct punctuation and grammar, with my Gen-Z speech sprinkled in here and there. I seek to better understand our complex language and share tips with you, the reader, as we go. Lastly, I plan to update my posts with a review of the current book I’m reading. Who knows? Maybe I can add a few books to someone’s reading list!

~Servus~

**My Booklist.