The essence of blockchain technology is a set of processes that cannot be manipulated, so transparency is the main feature that forms a solid Foundation of blockchain technology. The financial sector, on the other hand, is becoming a solution for the case of data manipulation, and therefore new innovations have been introduced in the blockchain space, i.e. decentralized Finance, where people can perform financial transactions using decentralized blockchain technology. Smarts Finance is a new ecosystem that represents a new DeFi system for everyone.

About Decentralization:

In their vision of the future, people’s desire to have a say over governance continues to grow by the day. Since Central institutions or structures live a life entirely dependent on the decisions of the Manager or decision-making mechanism at the center, this also causes some problems. Decentralization refers precisely to the fact that power is taken from the center and distributed to all members of the community. It represents a real democracy, not a representative democracy.

The concept of decentralized Finance is an innovative approach that has been put forward to liberate financial institutions. Central financial institutions have spinning wheels on the interests of managers who are always at the center. It is free from problems caused by errors of administrators or structures in the center. If we give an example for the crypto world, you can hear the screams of thousands of victims who have been injured by Central agencies in the past. Many fraud attempts that caused investors to lose their money, and investments lost due to mismanagement, made the community poor, while the Central mechanisms were rich.

Decentralized Finance, on the other hand, eliminates the centralized structure that causes these problems by transferring all management processes to the community. Smarts Finance and similar smart contracts running on the Ethereum network provide the infrastructure for these systems to work.

About the Smarts Finance project:

Smarts Finance promises to provide users with a variety of features provided by modern financial institutions, decentralized. It allows communities to interact directly with each other using methods such as borrowing, lending, or making passive profits without any intermediaries between them.decomposition allows communities to interact directly with each other. You can make transactions directly through smart contracts on the ethereum network without the need for a Bank or financial institution.

Smarts Finance has many competitors in this area, but they want to expand the scope of the platform, offering various advantages over competitors. It eliminates the dividends of Central financial systems by offering better rates both from the point of view of those who want to borrow money and from the point of view of those who want to borrow money, and completely deconstructs these dividends between users.

By doing all this, they also don’t neglect to encourage their community to use the platform with various rewards. They offer privileges to the community that are likely to stand out compared to the competition. They also have various studies and proposals to solve the problem of high gas Fi, one of the biggest problems of decentralized financial platforms.

Areas of use of Smarts Finance:

Liquidity extraction:

One of the most important screws among the principles of operation of decentralized platforms is the extraction of liquidity.deconstruction of liquidity is one of the main areas of work of decentralized platforms. Investors trust between spouses to provide liquidity income by providing them with helps. Your investments that you place in the pool allow people to trade between different divisions, and you receive income from each transaction performed in the ratio of your share in the pool Dec.

One of the most important screws among the principles of operation of decentralized platforms is the extraction of liquidity.deconstruction of liquidity is one of the main areas of work of decentralized platforms. Investors trust between spouses to provide liquidity income by providing them with helps. Your investments that you place in the pool allow people to trade between different divisions, and you receive income from each transaction performed in the ratio of your share in the pool Dec. Borrowing and lending

The Bank’s dividend is added to the interest rate when you borrow from the Bank. When you perform this transaction with Smarts Finance, more profitable options are formed for both parties, since this transaction will be performed without intermediaries. Central platforms receive various deductions from both the lender and the borrower. Decentralized platforms like SMARTS Finance aim to eliminate these agents. So you can earn income by borrowing your money directly, or you can get the opportunity to borrow money on more favorable terms.

The Bank’s dividend is added to the interest rate when you borrow from the Bank. When you perform this transaction with Smarts Finance, more profitable options are formed for both parties, since this transaction will be performed without intermediaries. Central platforms receive various deductions from both the lender and the borrower. Decentralized platforms like SMARTS Finance aim to eliminate these agents. So you can earn income by borrowing your money directly, or you can get the opportunity to borrow money on more favorable terms. Income from bets

This is a common name for systems that allow you to get a passive return on your investment. You can increase the amount by betting your own platform token, SMAT, USD-based stable coins, or crypto units that you trust in the future. Smarts Finance aims to provide a variety of stake income opportunities.

This is a common name for systems that allow you to get a passive return on your investment. You can increase the amount by betting your own platform token, SMAT, USD-based stable coins, or crypto units that you trust in the future. Smarts Finance aims to provide a variety of stake income opportunities. SMAT token

It has a token structure that allows you to run ERC-20-based smart contracts on the Ethereum network. In addition to being the token Manager of the Smarts Finance decentralized platform, it is a division that can be used to stack or reward users for borrowing and lending activities. His total menstruation is 400,000 SMAT, and 60% of this amount is reserved for betting and other activities on the platform.

Road map:

Conclusion:

Smarts Finance introduces a new DeFi ecosystem, more sophisticated than its predecessors, with more attractive features and benefits. The framework is designed to efficiently execute various processes through their platform and, of course, more efficiently using Blockchain technology. Their own currency token has a healthy tokenomics with an efficient flow allowing for increased demand over time. Basically, the essence of DeFi is a transparent transaction financing process, and so Smarts Finance is one of the recommended DeFi projects that I recommend, so I hope that you will become a part of this wonderful project.

Thank you for attention!

All useful links can be found below:

Website: https://smarts.finance/

Whitepaper: https://smarts.finance/assets/documents/WhitePaper.pdf

Twitter: https://twitter.com/Smarts_finance

Telegram: https://t.me/smartsfinance

Discord: https://discord.com/invite/rertF5a

Medium: https://medium.com/@smartsfinance

Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/channel/UCp58Zt6o88nj9jH8tKtvzSw

═════════════★ Author ★═════════════════════

★MY BITCOINTALK USERNAME: tomson777

★MY BITCOINTALK PROFILE LINK: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1766687

★MY ETH ADDRESS: 0x20C834700ACF061af481C4B95B58C6787dB4B052

★UNIQUENESS 100%: https://text.ru/antiplagiat/5fe6f1b816516