And others will follow you

Photo by Ben White on Unsplash

Reflection Mark 14:26–42

In the Garden of Eden, God ordered Adam not to eat of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil (Gen 2:16–17). However, Adam disobeyed God and ate the fruit from the tree (Gen 3:6). Because of his disobedience, he was expelled from the Garden. Through the sin of one man, the whole human race fell from grace. In a garden setting again, this time at Gethsemane, Jesus was to save the world through His obedience. It was to be a time of testing and Jesus asked His disciples to pray with Him. He needed their companionship but they were tired and fell asleep. Jesus knew His suffering would be great and wished that He did not have to go through it, but He submitted Himself to the will of God in obedience. He sacrificed Himself and took on the sins of the world so that men may be saved. From this sacrifice, the church grew from twelve to more than two billion Christians worldwide today.

Corporate Leadership

Jesus knew He had to sacrifice Himself. As a human, He realized the suffering would be great. However, He accepted and obeyed His Father’s will, knowing that the world was precious to God and He would sacrifice Himself to save it. Such an incident could happen in a company facing a crisis. For example, during an economic downturn, the workers could be told to bear cost-cutting measures or face retrenchment, and so on. They would feel injustice is done. On the other hand, if management takes the brunt of the cost-cutting measures, workers are less likely to complain. On the contrary, it engenders loyalty and obedience to the management who is willing to sacrifice first. Some workers may be inspired to do likewise for the company. David Kenyon Webster, US Army Officer, and writer said, “Those things which are precious are saved only by sacrifice.” — XW

Family Leadership

Through the disobedience of one man, the whole world suffered. Through the obedience of one man, the whole world is saved. Such is the irony of the human race –it has to learn through hardship. Instead of obedience to God in the first place, it would have avoided suffering through generations. It had to take the sacrifice of God’s only Son to bring salvation back to them. Upon reflection, parents also realize that this applies to themselves. When children are disobedient, parents seem to be in agony more than their children. However, as children grow up to be adults, they realize that they should have to more obedient to save themselves the suffering. They also realize how much their parents have gone through for their sake. Henri Frederic Amiel, a Swiss writer, said, “Sacrifice still exists everywhere, and everywhere the elect of each generation suffers for the salvation of the rest.” — XW

Next: Trust is The Start of Friendship