We know that the key to success is to have really great habits that can be sustained for a very long time. Habits take away decision making and become an extension of what we do on a daily basis — saving time and energy for when we really need it.

But where we can sometimes fail to connect the dots is believing that we can just go around picking up habits without any concern of how they can be implemented into our lives and what the potential cost of that new habit might be.

When we find habits and then try to throw them on top of whatever mess we might have already created, they just don’t seem to stick all that well. When the going gets tough we’ll revert back to our usual behaviors.

But when we build habits, we first start with a blueprint of what we would like to change. We take our time and leave a little room for error. We fold them into our daily routine and when we mess up, we can make hopefully learn from our mistakes and swiftly correct course.

Building the right habits around good training, nutrition, and lifestyle practices takes more time and effort than we probably realize, but the foundation beneath those habits is unshakable.

Some quick guidelines when building habits:

Start with one thing — the most important thing right now — and go from there. “Too many change, make no change at all” — Mr. Miyagi (I might be paraphrasing).

2) Start small. Oh you’re gonna from Doritos and Pepsi for lunch to chicken and broccoli? Good luck. Make the change as easy as possible to get some wins under your belt.

3) Use the Jerry Seinfeld Trick: don’t break the chain. How many days in a row can you implement your one habit?

4) When you mess up, miss a day, or completely fall off the wagon…own it and move on. Your just a good decision away from being back on track.

5) You don’t need ALL the habits to get the job done. Enough already with the 90 minute morning routines that anyone with a real job or family can’t possibly execute. Move the big rocks that are important to YOU.