5 Ways to Enhance the software quality assurance & testing

Improving quality assurance (QA) is a vital element of project management because it helps enhance cost-effectiveness and helps deliver superior performance. It, in return, improves software quality and helps in the reduction of costs. The better the QA team, the more projects get delivered seamlessly and efficiently. The recent trend in the industry is to weave quality assurance with software development during the SDLC and not treat it as a separate entity that gets executed in the end.

Here are five tips to improve the software testing and QA process.

1. Start the testing process early on.

Ensure that the software testing process is an integral part of the SDLC. The earlier you start, the better can the defects be detected and nipped in the bud. The latter testing becomes a part of your SDLC, the more complicated things become. Before things snowball into something big and complex, the things need to be addressed effectively. Also important is that the more complicated the issue is, the more money will be required to resolve the issue. Having software testers and QA experts early means that bugs and defects get detected fast, and almost the moment these originate.

2. Use automation to test often

It is important to automate your testing disciplines. You can begin with non-UI tests and then move onto UI tests. With the help of APIs and Webservices, it is possible to automate testing through the entire process at every point. Compared to manual methods, automation comes with an increased scope because there is increased accuracy and depth possible. Automating tests and QA processes convert into the delivery of stable and qualitative products.

Thankfully, there are very many automated tools that help address every phase in the QA process. When the testing and development phase are integrated meaningfully with an Agile domain, things happen fast and unmatched.

3. Let there be room for innovation.

Time-tested methods and practices are good, but there should always be enough scope for innovation. Innovation is a critical element in SDLC, including QA. Project managers should encourage R & R&D (Research & Development) and give teams enough power to find ways to find newer methods and tools to test the software. By rewarding innovations regularly, project managers can set in the innovation spirit in their team members.

4. Undertake manual tests when most required

While automation is critical, the essence of manual testing can never be compromised or under-rated. Automation helps release QA experts from doing the repetitive task of testing, but human testers help provide useful feedback and insights that automated tools and machines can never offer. While automation is an incredible strategy, it needs to be balanced well with manual components.

5. Communication is important with stakeholders

Transparency in communication is imperative for seamless working. The same rule applies to testing and Quality Assurance in software projects. Whether it is communicating with internal stakeholders, external stakeholders, scrum masters, and developers, it is vital that the team often meets, that the information is disseminated transparently, and collaboration is given the highest priority for best results.

Delivering a quality software product is no coincidence or joke. It requires regular testing because QA is the pillar for guaranteed quality. Ensure the best-automated tools and encourage your testers to innovate consistently. iBoss is a leader in the spectrum of software testing and quality assurance. Be it tools, support, or testers; you have the best partner to offer top-of-line QA solutions.