My Best Friend Did More For Kevin Than Anyone Else In His Whole Life

Me, Toby

We went for a walk along the old railway line. My best friend and me. It’s tarred now, the path. Plenty of things to see and smell. Mostly, we’re happy to walk in silence.

Sometimes we have to move into the side to let people whizz by on their metal frame with spinning wheels.

“No problem,” he calls to them, even if they don’t say “thank you”.

It’s nice walking the old railway line. There is a plastic milk container hanging from a tree. It has sides cut out. It spins in the wind, but there must be a kind person who fills it up with seeds. We stop and watch the birds feed — when it’s not spinning.

After a while, it drizzled. Up went the umbrella. I don’t bother. I don’t mind the rain.

We came to a bench. Wooden, in need of paint. Near a big bin, people don’t know it is there, judging by the things I see lying on the ground. A man sat on the bench, head in his hands.

I stood back, wary. No-one sits on this bench next to a smelly bucket. My best friend stopped. Keeping his distance.

“Are you okay?” “… No,” the man said without looking up. “Are you feeling unwell?”

This time he looked up, a boy not a man, nearly, but not quite. His eyes red, cheeks puffy. He took a moment to focus.

“No man. I’m just nothing.” “Do you need an ambulance?” “No.” “This rain is getting heavier, you’ll get soaked sitting there, maybe you better head home.”

He was already wet through. I think he’d been there for a while.

“There’s nothing to go home for.” He sunk his head back into his hands. “I’m just concerned about you, you know.” “Nobody cares about me.” “I’m going around the loop, then I’ll be back to check on you. If you are still here.”

We walked around the loop, back onto the path back the way we came. Twenty-minutes at most.

He was still there, the boy on the bench. The rain was heavier now — but not as heavy as his head. My best friend went close to him, his umbrella stopped the rain falling on the boy. I felt sad for him. He smelled like burnt dead leaves.

“What’s your name?” “I can’t tell you my name, I’m just a nobody.” “Look, you are wet and cold. It’s time you went home, I think.” “There’s no-one there who cares, they think I’m a waste of space.” “If you are heading this way, you can walk with me under my umbrella.” “What’s your name?” He asked.

My best friend told him.

The boy said,

“I’m Kevin, you have done more for me today than anyone else in my whole life,” he stretched his hand towards him.

We shouldn’t touch anyone what with this virus thingy going about, but my best friend took his hand. I let the boy touch me too. He still didn’t want to come under the umbrella. After a while, we left.

We’ve passed Kevin on the old railway line a few times since. He sometimes has a bottle in his pocket. My best friend always says,

“Hello Kevin, how are you today.”

But I don’t think Kevin remembers him.