Would like to Put Cybercriminals on Notice

Worried about net neutrality? Uneasy about cryptocurrency? Wondering if your online purchases are properly encrypted? Don’t worry, Captain Otoole and the Internet Police are here to defend you!

Internet Police is a humour webstrip that uses current web security and tech crime issues to educate and entertain web users of all experience levels. The Internet Police aren’t the most technically savvy, but what they lack in ability to connect to Wifi, they make up with in heart for stopping cybercrime.

The comic strip is posted three times per week, Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at www.internetpoliceheadquarters.com. They feature a colorful cast including Karate Cat, young internet genius Kevin, Kevin’s mom Ms. Cindy, their employer, the disembodied hologram of Al Gore, with the team being led by the geriatric internet neophyte, Captain Otoole.

Captain Otoole, stated, “To protect your identity from cybercriminals, I recommend you register everything on the blockchain. Your name, your home address, your latest tax return, and even your hopes and dreams.”

The Internet Police estimate that more than 70% of the web is made up of cybercriminals, while the other 30% is just law-abiding men pretending to be teenage girls. To combat these cybercriminals, the Internet Police will be traversing the entire Internet with daily patrols. At night, the Internet Police will be asleep, but so are the cybercriminals so no need to worry, you are safe.

“We are going to put an end to cybercrime,” said Captain Otoole. “If you are using bitcoin to buy pirated software or movies, we will find you!”

The website has comic strips and blog posts regularly updated by Captain Otoole himself, on behalf of the comic strip’s mysterious creator.

Due to the popularity of the comic, an animated series based on the strips currently in development.

In reality, a joint report published by the Ponemon Institute and Accenture LLC reports that cybercrime is increasing annually. Just this year 57 million Uber users had their data stolen. 198 million voter records were exposed. The average cost of a malware attack is $2.4 million.

The philosophy behind the creation of the webstrip is that “You are probably going to get hacked eventually. Might as well laugh about it.”

Internet fans can read the current comic strips and updates on the animated production at www.internetpoliceheadquarters.com now. Captain Otoole and the rest of the team can be followed on Twitter at https://twitter.com/internetpolicer and https://www.facebook.com/InternetPoliceHeadquarters/.

To report a cybercrime, please contact us at tips@internetpoliceheadquarters.com.

###

For additional images and interview requests, please contact:

Captain Otoole — Director, The Internet Police, tips@internetpoliceheadquarters.com

Mike Gagnon — Media Rep., mike@mikegagnon.ca, 905–329–9424