1. With you living on the west coast, how did you slip into quarantine life where you live and what did it teach you?

Oddly enough, quarantine wasn’t a total shock at first. I am quite the homebody — having people over and going out here and there, but being home so much wasn’t entirely new for me. Of course, it got lonely as I live alone… aside from my pets who loved the fact they could now beg for food and attention 24/7.

I think the first realization that life was about to change was early in COVID times (before masks were required) and I was running low on a few things and toilet paper. I went to do my monthly shopping trip and toilet paper was out of stock EVERYWHERE. I literally went to like 20 different stores trying to find some. Everyone began to get frantic as lockdown started to be enforced so my sister back in Pennsylvania mailed some out to me and spent $60 in shipping to do so! I was like “Welp, this is life now.”

But in all seriousness, quarantine made me realize the importance of everything I have in my life. We’re so quick to take things and people for granted. I rekindled a lot of relationships that fell through — not because of anything necessarily bad, just life happening.

I went back to enjoying the simple things. Reading more books. I used to do a lot of art back in the day and I started drawing and painting again. Been going on lots of secluded hikes. Trying to spend less time looking at computer and phone screens. I discovered a newfound passion for making pierogies from scratch. It’s been great, I missed those little things. Of course, things still get lonely and boring, but you find ways to keep your head up.

2. Are there things you are going to do differently once COVID has subsided?

I’ll be more aware, but it’s hard to say because I can’t yet imagine life back to “normal.” But I definitely will have a changed outlook. I don’t want to wait for bad things to happen to reach out to others. I want to do more and explore more. I’ll also appreciate small things like hugs a hell of a lot more.

3. If this year had no restrictions, what were some things you were looking forward to doing? How did you adjust?

I was planning a trip to Lisbon, Portugal. I’ve never been outside the country, so I was really looking forward to it. It’s such a beautiful city and I know it would have been an eye-opening experience, but it’s not going anywhere. So, someday.

The biggest adjustment was the loss of live music. As a concert photographer, going to shows monthly, sometimes weekly, was part of my routine. It was a great escape from my day job and was a way to let my creative mind have fun and hang with friends and fellow photographers. I miss it and it’s crushing to see so many venues now being forced to shut down. Not sure what the music scene will be like when this is all over, but I hope we get back to it soon.

With photography, I also had a few big opportunities with some musicians in the works — one overseas that would have been amazing and huge for me. It was a massive bummer, but you can’t dwell on it.

Music photography is a huge outlet for me and while I couldn’t do the things above, I still managed to take pictures to help cope. I love nature and that’s always been another thing I enjoy photographing, so I was glad I had more time to be outside (safely) and do that.

4. Has this year changed the timeframe of where you want to be in life forward or backward?

While being quarantined by myself I thought about a lot of things in my life — both in the past and future. I’m about to turn 34 and there’s always this stigma that if you aren’t married and have kids by 30, you’re doomed. But ya know, fuck that! My 20s were rough — personal loss, the relationship fails, some career choices that didn’t work out as planned.

Looking back there may have been a few things that I’d do differently, but I wouldn’t be where I’m at now if I didn’t take those steps. 2020 has allowed me to take the time to figure out what I want out of life and where I want to be. I think the redeeming quality of this year is that it’s changed a lot of perceptions. Even if we decide to completely change our life’s path, it’s okay and it’s never too late. I want to live for the moment, not rush to fit a “norm.”

5. How do you feel about the state of the world and are we closer to making it better? If not, what should we do?

Sad, anger, disgust. But there’s also a side of hope mixed in there.

In terms of COVID, it’s mind-boggling that people still shrug off this pandemic and refuse to wear a mask. It’s hard being away from friends and family. I’m glad we’re getting closer to a vaccine, but it’s still going to be a long process. I’m trying to remain optimistic.

With the issues around racial inequality, it’s heartbreaking. As a white woman, I understand that I am privileged and will never fully understand what many others have been and are going through. I want to do better. There have been so many repeated tragic happenings that shouldn’t be happening, but it’s inspiring to see so many people come together and protest for the better. We need to continue to become more aware and raise our voices. We’re making small steps to get better, but there’s still so much to do.

6. Give me two things you hope to bring into 2021 from this year and why

Going to answer two ways.

For myself — strength. Before COVID hit, 2020 was already turning out to be a difficult year. Physically, mentally, I was going through a lot. COVID didn’t make any of that easier. The biggest challenge was having to get surgery for a chronic illness I’ve been battling for over 15 years (and trying to get this procedure for a majority of those years). I was terrified and alone, because well, I had to do it alone.

While it was a strange time for it to finally happen, it happened. I felt so amazing coming out of the surgery and in a weird way, it was a breakthrough. I didn’t stop fighting and that really changed my mentality. You always hear those motivational quotes but until you actually experience them, you don’t realize the impact. I feel like I can do so much more now and I want to keep that strength going.

For others — compassion. More than ever, this year has taught us that life is uncertain. I think the state of the world has made a lot of us want to improve. I want to do more to help others. I want to learn more, so I can be a better person. I want to make those things a priority in my life.

Bonus Question: In the way too early pick, who do you have winning the NBA championship next season?

Damn, we’re gonna go out like this?

I’m sure the Lakers are going to come out strong wanting that back-to-back title. After the bubble, I love where Denver, Dallas, and Phoenix are heading. As a current Bay Area resident, I feel like I have to somewhat root for the Warriors, but I’m still bitter after their move to SF… and with Klay out AGAIN, not a chance. I’m an east coast girl and Philly will always have my heart… although a championship is unlikely there (sorry, Philly).

As of now, I’m going to say it’s between Miami, Portland, or Brooklyn. The Heat and Blazers are going to want their redemption (and I’d be happy to see either team take it). Although Durant is and has always been, my boy. I’m excited to see Nash and I think he’s going to be a great coach.

That wasn’t a good answer, but I look forward to our digital commentating and play-by-play GIF reactions whichever way it goes.