We all are lockdown in our home. The silence in the city is deafening and making louder noise inside us.

Mumbai, the city which never sleeps, is awake and like never before. The city is captive under uninvited virus. The city which is always high on the spirit whatever may come, it is never bolted. Today it is at a queer standstill.

The city which has witnessed a lot of gang fights, bomb blasts, terrorist attacks and ceaseless riots.

The spread of the deadly virus needs to be stopped and lockdown seems to be the most logical solution for the overpopulated city. News of the virus is pouring from all the directions.

Social media is amplifying the impact of virus. The deaths caused by Covid-19 are really less compared to the cases. Social media and news channels are indirectly and unknowingly promoting only the negativity.

No sooner do I open the social media than I find the latest news titled: ‘Coronavirus at Large; Killed 18 people today’.

Instead of creative and inspirational posts and stories, I am now finding many negative posts and stories. This virus has stopped making us think positive.

The negative vibrations which everybody is releasing, have augmented double.

Let’s take a fresh look at the situation. So, you are compulsory at home till 31st March which

may get extended further depending on the situation. Everything is closed. No trains, Bus, Flights service. You can’t meet friends and relatives. Even while walking on the streets everybody is staring and gazing at each other as if you have asked for their kidneys.

Some are working from home. But we all know it can’t be that hectic to work from home as most of your customers are also not working with full capacity.

So, the point comes down to enjoy the family time. Which of course is the opportunity one should grab as with the mundane life of the city we have made lots of compromises to spend time with family. But sitting at home and spending the time on social media and watching the web series is definitely not a family time.

When a person can’t find a deep sense of meaning, they distract themselves with pleasure.

Trust me, life no longer will be same at the end of lockdown. There will be lots of challenges in all the fronts. There will be change in businesses, the way you operate or function your job. As most of the companies will face crisis it may lead to loss of pay or loss of job. Billions of dollars already lost in the stock markets. The price of essentials may increase but can’t ensure the increase of pay.

So why not make the best use of this lockdown into something for which our future may thank us. If we can’t go outside then let’s go inside.

Why not do the things we always wanted to do? Why not learn something new for which we always strived? Why not show our courage to do something for which we have always been afraid?

Do what you were keen of doing or pursue the hobby like speaking new language, singing, exercising, the way we communicate and many more. With the ocean of information available on a click, why don’t we explore ourselves?

This is not the STOP in our life, it’s just the PAUSE by the GOD.

It’s time to reinvent. It’s time to plan and prepare for the next phase of life.

Be ready for the battle we have to fight. This chapter of our life will bring the significant changes in the future. Utilize this time in the best interest of personal development.

Let’s convert this adversity into opportunity.

“Even the Darkest Night will End and the Sun will Rise” — Victor Hugo