Please, don’t judge me, it was that place I was thinking about, and I decided to show all emotions.

I was standing near the huge window of our spacious house, and this enormous window always opened the view of every wonderful place of my favorite city — Berlin. But most of all, I liked it at night, because there all corners were literally shining by colorful city lights.

Besides that city flames, nothing more illuminated that room with the dark wallpapers, that was with a very strict color like your behavior at work, and with a large bed, where were a red bedspread — it was so bright and provocative color as memories relating to that king-size bed. Actually, this side of our bed also showed your love of power and nothing more could show it better.

To tell the truth, I really admired the darkness, because there the craziest things always happened… And this profound silence helped to hear those things, that nobody, except for me, couldn’t hear.

And I heard your firm and confident steps of your heavy boots, and I felt your heady, deep and bitter aroma of your expensive perfume. My heart began to pound very fast, because even when I just thought about you, I couldn’t stop those delightful thoughts. And when you were near, I felt a stormy flying of butterflies in my stomach and I was burning up as hot as a flame in Hell. Actually, I had an impression that you were from Hell, because you were too hot for this world, even for Germany.

You got close so fast that I didn’t even have enough time to turn to you, and immediately you put your strong arms around my waist sweetly and cuddled up to me so close, that I felt perceptibly warm of your body.

Finally, I carefully turned to you and saw your red eyes, which were like a flame burning brightly, and your beautiful sexy demonic grin — those things were all that gave me that wild desire too.

You didn’t keep me waiting and passionately kissed my lips. I immediately felt a taste of your favorite cigarettes with strawberry. Even though, I didn’t like cigarettes, but when I felt their taste on your tongue, I liked your stupid habit. And your kisses were so luscious and voluptuous, that I was burning inside. Your fingers imperiously were pulling my hair, your stubble was tickling my cheek, and you were cuddling up to me tighter, and my trembling hands were gently stroking your strong back.

I forgot about everything with you: where I was, and even who I am. It didn’t matter where we were, maybe even if we were in a basement. The most important thing was you by my side, and I didn’t want anything more.

Burning from my wild desire, I began to kiss your tattoos on your neck, and my stick fingers inadvertently made their way up to your black shirt, fumbling with your buttons. I liked that shirt but I often wanted to see you without it, because I was fond of your muscular body, and I didn’t notice how I undid all buttons, and my fingers were carefully touching your abs.

I was dying for something more, and you also so charmingly groaned in my ear, that I wanted to get closer and closer down by my lips and fingers, but there your fingers unexpectedly and softly stroked my neck and imperiously pressed on my chin that you made me to lift my head.

I looked at you bewildered, and immediately I saw your lovely dimpled smile, but your eyes still were like a blazing fire, and they showed that you wanted me very much. And I heard your deep, penetrating voice, but at the same time your voice was so sweet and tender:

- Ich liebe dich, meine Süße…

At least, I realized: my ideal place is where you are, my dearest person in the whole world.