Choosing the right web hosting according to your requirement is highly critical. There are many options of website hosting available today so it can be confusing for you. But do not worry, by the end of this article you’ll get a complete idea on which type of web hosting option will be suitable for you.

Let us go through all the 7 web hosting options.

1. Shared Hosting:

Shared hosting is a service where two or more websites reside on the same server and share access to the server’s resources. The hosting company will typically provide a web-based control panel that allows you to control settings for all of the sites on the server.

Many businesses are looking for a solution that is affordable, reliable, and scalable. Shared hosting offers all of these at an affordable price. These systems are built on the cloud with reliability in mind which is why they are scalable, meaning that as your business grows, so can your shared hosting. This way you will never have to worry about not being able to keep up with customer demand.

2. VPS Hosting

A VPS (Virtual Private Server) is a server that you can hire from the web hosting company, but you will have exclusive rights to access and use it.

You can choose how much memory and CPU and decide what operating system you want to install on the virtual machine. This will allow you to keep your data private and use whatever software or scripts you need without running into any conflicts with other users of the same server.

VPS Hosting is a type of hosting specifically for websites, email, and other personal needs. The benefits to this type of hosting are that it can be scaled up or down depending on the customer’s needs, it is fairly inexpensive, and it can provide increased security.

VPS hosting has become very popular, especially for those with a limited budget. But when should you choose VPS over shared hosting? If your needs are relatively small, then shared hosting is the way to go. However, if you have an increased need for features that are not typically offered by shared hosting providers, then VPS may be the better option. For example, some VPS providers offer dedicated IPs for their customers while some don’t.

3. Dedicated Hosting

Dedicated hosting is a type of web hosting that offers higher-bandwidth services. Unlike shared hosts, dedicated hosting is offered on one server and provides customers with more control of their website.

Dedicated hosting may be the better choice for sites that require high levels of bandwidth and resources to operate. It also provides a greater level of security as a customer will have complete ownership of their site’s data. However, it comes at a higher cost as the price includes renting an entire server.

Dedicated hosting is the best way for businesses with high levels of traffic on their website to stay up and running at all times. Dedicated servers are also the only option for companies who need guaranteed uptime, or who have stringent security expectations.

4. Cloud Hosting

Cloud hosting is a fantastic new technology that has become popular with companies of all sizes. It offers reliable uptime, greater accessibility, and a lower cost of ownership.

The idea behind cloud hosting is that it can be done through the use of remote servers hosted on the internet, rather than local servers at individual companies. Unlike in dedicated servers where data is stored in only one server, the data in cloud hosting is stored in multiple servers around the world. So if one server goes down, the data can be served from other servers, resulting in an almost 100% uptime for your website.

Companies like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure provide Cloud Hosting services. They host data in the cloud while allowing organizations to access it on demand.

Cloud hosting is a popular solution for organizations that need to expand their storage capacity and memory requirements on demand. It allows businesses to scale up and down without having to invest in physical infrastructure.

However, some pitfalls come with this new trend in technology, including a loss of control over the physical location of the servers and an increased vulnerability to security breaches.

5. Managed WordPress Hosting

Many people are moving to managed WordPress hosting providers because they don’t want to be bothered with the maintenance that is a traditional hosting package requires.

A managed WordPress hosting service will take care of all server updates, website security, and backups so you can focus on your business. It is also great for beginners because the setup process is easy and there is no additional cost for installing plugins or themes.

The managed WordPress hosting options from companies such as GoDaddy, Hostgator, and Imotion have been designed to give you the tools needed for quick and easy installation and maintenance of your website to save you time and energy in the long run.

6. Co-Location Hosting

Many people are unaware of the cost-savings and convenience of co-location hosting. It is a new trend in web hosting where a company shares a data center with other companies.

In co-location hosting, a company rents space in a facility that has been designed specifically for data center use. The company can then put their servers and other equipment into this space and save on energy and cooling costs, as the facility will be running with newer technology than what they would have at home or an office building.

This can be beneficial to both the company and the customer. One of the main reasons for co-location hosting is that it reduces maintenance costs, which means it also lowers the price of hosting. In addition, this type of hosting provides redundancy and speed improvements.

7. Reseller Web Hosting

Reseller web hosting is a solution for one person or company to gain extra income by operating their own web hosting company and renting space on their servers to other individuals. For example, should someone want to start a web hosting business, they can buy their own server and rent out space to clients; the reseller will make money from the rent and the client pays for the cost of buying and running their own hardware.

We hope you got a good clarity on the types of web hosting and by now you can make up your mind on which web hosting option you would go for.

If you want to learn more about website development or digital marketing, you can visit https://www.buildurskills.com/

Develop your skills for free and grow your career to the next level.