17 top no-code examples

Screenshot from Memberstack’s website

Memberstack is a service used by over 15,000 marketers, designers and web developers to manage paid membership plans on their sites. It has been awarded #1 Product of the Day by Product Hunt.

Webflow made it easy to quickly build in the core components of an engaging user interface: a clear site navigation bar, embedded search feature, and a call-to-action as well as customer reviews.

Screenshot from jomor.design’s website

jomor.design is an impressively slick website well suited to creative industries, leveraging Webflow’s animation features to create highly interactive web pages.

When a visitor hovers their mouse over elements of the home page, relevant visuals and information are displayed. A kind of interactivity that would require a large amount of effort, using complex JavaScript code and other programming languages, in a traditional code-based development world.

It’s a great example of the fluidity that Webflow provides you with, creating playful interfaces that will delight customers with a unique experience.

Screenshot from Raylo’s website

Raylo is an E-Commerce platform that provides visitors with a savings calculator, a range of mobile products and a searchable blog.

In this example, Webflow was used to build the entire website, including the ability to carry out live stocks checks on the products offered, customer sign-ups and account management.

Screenshot from Aura Ads’ website

Aura Ads is a video advertising service targeting E-Commerce companies. A fun, original and animated interface greets visitors on the home page, with payment plans and subscriptions embedded on the page.

Another great display of an interactive website entirely built with Webflow’s no-code tool, it also has a distinct brand identity and design elements that help the company stand out.

Screenshot from Louisiana Job Connection’s website

Louisiana Job Connection is a job portal with a twist. The ease with which Webflow allows you to structure a site in original ways makes browsing seamless and engaging here, unlike many other job sites.

With a clear and interactive layout, this site facilitates fast and convenient job searching, thanks to categories with items sorted by industry.

Screenshot from Ents’ website

Ents is a beautifully designed web design agency site, covering E-Commerce sites hosted on Shopify.

The pure interface is free of distractions and showcases the company’s portfolio to visitors. This is a great example of how a relatively simple, clean design can give a brand credibility and drive conversions.

Screenshot from Petal’s website

Petal is a credit provider with over $380 million raised in capital, running its entire Marketing website on Webflow.

Thanks to Webflow, the company’s Marketing and Design teams could manage the site themselves, without having to rely on Engineering teams to make the changes needed.

This allowed for rapid testing and iterations to quickly identify the optimum designs and layouts that would resonate the most with customers.

Screenshot from Rakuten Super Logistics’ website

Rakuten Super Logistics provides a fulfillment service for online retailers.

Migrating from WordPress to Webflow, the easily-configurable interface has enabled the company to increase its number of page views and new users, whilst decreasing bounce rates by almost a third — meaning visitors stay longer on the site and engage more with its content.

Screenshot from Getaround’s website

Getaround is a car-sharing site that had previously raised over $400m in funding. The company switched to Webflow to enable their Marketing teams to directly own website design and content publishing.

The change resulted in a 55% increase in organic traffic and a further 80% rise in site sessions from visitors. The move to Webflow has meant that Engineering and Product teams could re-focus their energy on making better products for customers, as opposed to working on website design.

Screenshot from Mural’s website

Mural, the well-known digital collaboration workspace, has also transferred to Webflow after their site had been owned entirely by Engineering teams.

The benefits of the move included a faster content production cycle, and led to a 37% increase in revenues along with a doubling of the trial conversion rate from new customers.

Screenshot from Heco’s website

Heco is a branding agency focused on brand identities and product design. It created a unique and interactive site, which draws visitors in right from the homepage.

The moving, 3D wave that greets visitors sparks curiosity, and past projects are shown in a natural flow simply by scrolling down the page.

Screenshot from Assemble’s website

Assemble is a video production company with a stunning, attention-grabbing website. The homepage includes a step-by-step guide for new customers, and the navigation makes it easy to get a project started.

The site also features an instant quote functionality, which lets users interact with a sliding scale to receive immediate pricing options for their specific requirements.

Screenshot from Education Union Lab’s website

Education Union Lab is a strategy firm targeting union leaders in the educational space. The slick design and easy-to-use navigation bars are key features of the site.

Screenshot from SaltBranding’s website

SaltBranding, an award-winning branding agency, used Webflow to create a high-impact site that showcases the company’s work and its authority in the industry.

This type of layout builds trust and credibility without confusing visitors as the information is presented in a clear and structured manner.

Screenshot from MyKart’s website

MyKart, a social E-Commerce platform, has built a clear and compelling user interface with Webflow. The homepage displays information relevant to both sellers and shoppers in a digestible format.

Screenshot from EMDash’s website

EMDash, an Email Marketing provider, has designed a functional and visually appealing website.

All the information visitors would need is laid out on the scrollable homepage, with live chatbot functionality built right into the page, should they have any queries.

Screenshot from BigBlue’s website

BigBlue, a logistics provider, has built data tables from inside the Webflow content management tool to seamlessly handle distribution of products — a data-intensive task.

Both imaginative and playful in design, the site is visually stunning and a pleasure to browse.

Screenshot from Seamless Docs’ website

Seamless Docs’ mission is to help governments go fully digital.

The homepage displays an interactive timeline of the company’s key milestones, along with compelling stats showing the value of the service provided.