Photo by Karolina Grabowska from Pexels

I can distinctly remember biking through my hometown with my then boyfriend, now husband, talking about our futures. We insisted that we would never drive cars we couldn’t afford; we would prefer to be ‘house poor’ and live in place we loved where we could raise a family.

Little did we know.

Neither my husband nor I had been raised with a strong background in economics. Both our parents were in education — history and science. Shortly after we got married, my husband we presented with a job opportunity that set us on a path that essentially determined our economic future — only we didn’t know it at the time.

This job he took was a great opportunity — however, it was an enormous pay cut. This was twenty years ago. At that time, his salary was below the poverty level. My job brought us barely above that line — however, I’m a teacher so I only got paid nine months a year.

And so we began living paycheck to paycheck.

After a few years, my husband and I decided we needed to be in an industry that could pay him a salary that was above the poverty line before we could think about having children. So we moved home and we moved home and he took a job in sales.

This was a boost in income-which we appreciated. However, we were so far in debt at this point, we had no idea where to go from that point.

This is where I now tell my children we are a cautionary tale as had we made other choices perhaps we’d be in a different position today. We tried paying off multiple debts instead of tackling one at a time….

We rented several houses instead of buying one and staying put.

When we did finally buy one, we didn’t take into consideration how big our family would get and couldn’t stay there long term because we outgrew it.

We didn’t listen to our twenty-year old selves and bought a vehicle we couldn’t afford.

Some of the circumstances were out of our control…like the real estate market tanking when we needed to sell our too small house; an industry illegally paying their employees below the poverty line — something for which they were later sued for and found guilty of (but too late to help us of course).

However, those circumstances would have been far less damaging had we made better choices with the circumstances we could control. That is the lesson I teach my children. There’s nothing you can do about the circumstances you can’t control, so do the best with the ones you can.

I won’t pretend to say it’s a hard lesson to learn because as I sit here I am healthy, my family is healthy, my husband and I love each other, and my children are remarkable individuals. That’s the lesson I’ve learned in the face of all the economic difficulties we’ve faced through the years, and I’m grateful.