Over half a decade later, it’s impossible to erase your mark completely.

In the first few weeks, we stayed together. Letting the tears flow, letting the laughter come.

Then, as with any party, it was back to our different cliques. But of course, this ending was different.

We fell into tight hugs when we saw each other around, we asked how we were doing, genuinely wanting to know.

We held memorials to relive your love.

Even as the years go by, you’ve brought us together forever.

We watched your best friend say I do over zoom — which was great because I got to sit in my PJs.

Your brother and I always know about the new jobs we’re starting. You always told me I could do “just about anything”.

Your sister always checks in when I start posting cryptic messages on my socials. She was there the first time I thought about ending it, 5 years after you left.

Your cousin and I shared one kiss. We realised all we had in common was grief and nostalgia. We still check on each other over the holidays.

I still can’t bear to see your mum, I feel guilty about how she holds it together, while I still breakdown at the mention of your name. My mum says she’s doing okay.

The rest of us all follow each other on Instagram, sharing our public monuments. Facebook is so dead. We don’t really post memorials for you any more.

Maybe it’s because we think it’s time to move on.

Maybe it’s because we don’t have any instaworthy pictures of you. We are the last generation of infrared, memory cards and 3mp cameras. Our less than candid moments are on lost devices and in our hearts.

Maybe it’s simply because we’ve begun to forget. I’ll admit that sometimes the anniversary of your death goes by while I’m having a good time.

I do wonder though, if our friendship would’ve lasted if you lived.

Probably not.

You would’ve grown closer to God as I strayed further away. But your smile would still warm the hearts of those lucky enough to know you.

You would’ve emigrated to a continent a world away. But I would still hear your voice now and then, and that would be enough.

We would’ve outgrown all the things that brought us together — the cheesy Nicki Minaj pop songs, the dying flash games, our naive teenage dreams. But, we would be able to reminisce over forced conversations, and I would be grateful to have shared a part of my life with you.

I still listen to our songs. I still smile when I see the book we had a silly fight over. If I knew that was the last time I’d see you, I would have let you read it first, you would’ve liked the ending.

I still cry out of nowhere sometimes, but the weird bunch you brought together has made sure I’m never alone.

Every now and then, I speak to someone else who loved you; and there’s no doubt that your short existence here has bound a bunch of misfits together for eternity.

I’m glad to have experienced the parts of you that you shared me, and all the wonderful people that came with you; I sure in hell would not have made it without them.

Love, Always.