Relative to the population, Germany currently has the most expensive public broadcasting organization (EUR 8 bn/y). Main public broadcasting outlets are ARD, ZDF, Deutschlandradio, Deutsche Welle, and further regional organizations (BR, SWR, NDR, etc.). These days, quite some political upheaval has been created, due to one regional parliament opposing the increase of the monthly fee, the “Rundfunkbeitrag”, by 86 cents. Up to now, every German household pays EUR 17.50 per month.

While the plates are currently hot in Germany, the questioning of funding amounts and methods of public broadcasting is not new in the greater region. Similar debates were held in Austria and Switzerland over the last years. In Switzerland, there was a vote (of course) in 2018, whether to straight up cancel the funding of public broadcasting. This vote was a clear example of the dire trend, to see the world in black and white, all or nothing. I have outlined in another article, why this is not the case. Nonetheless, such radical propositions have gained in popularity, as the broad political climate has grown more populistic. Thereby many seem to forget the word “reform”. The 2018 vote in Switzerland ended with a 71,6% victory for those in favor of keeping current funding practices of public broadcasting.

The question is not, whether we need public broadcasting organizations. They represent an essential part of the media landscapes and fulfill important, mandated tasks. To leave the field entirely to the private sector would not lead to better outcomes. Media & news as part of an essential infrastructure also fall into the public domain. The state should make sure that all citizens have access to news and media — and that all relevant topics are covered.

A purely private media sector would likely lead to many topics not being covered, and most certainly lead to many citizens being priced-out of quality media. As the media sector is realizing that the ad-revenue heavy business model is not ideal for most (and not crisis resistant, as 2020 showed), paywalls are getting tighter. How many subscriptions do you have? How many can you afford? How many can “the man on the street” afford? Apart from the trust & coverage topics, providing access to quality news is an essential part of public broadcasting.

Public broadcasters are essential. What’s the problem then?

This post is not about the current political upheaval in Germany, rather it’s about the afore mentioned word “reform”. Reform in the mandate and tasks of public broadcasters — not reform of funding amounts or methods, this would be a topic to address in another post. Such a reform would certainly have to tackle the fact of continued erosion of trust in media, which can be observed globally. The attitude towards the news and media industry is in many places not very favorable.