Welcome to our renewable resource page. Here you can learn more about what a renewable resource is and the importance of it.

A renewable resource is a resource which is replaced naturally and can be used again. Examples are: oxygen, fresh water, solar energy, timber, and biomass. Renewable resources may also include goods commodities such as wood, paper and leather.



Types of renewable sources:

Fossil fuels are non-renewable, that is, they draw on finite resources that will eventually dwindle, becoming too expensive or too environmentally damaging to retrieve. In contrast, the many types of renewable energy resources-such as wind and solar energy-are constantly replenished and will never run out.

Renewable sources VS. Non-renewable sources:



Nonrenewable energy resources like coal, nuclear, oil, and natural gas, are available in limited supplies. This is usually due to the long time it takes for them to be replenished. Renewable resources are replenished naturally and over relatively short periods of time.

Why are renewable resources are important?



Renewable energy is important because of the benefits it provides. The key benefits are:

· Environmental.

· Energy for out children’s children’s children.

· Jobs and economy.

· Energy security.

Renewable & Nonrenewable Resources

What are renewable resources?

· A renewable resource is a resource which is replaced naturally and can be used again.

Examples:

· Oxygen, fresh water, solar energy, timber, and biomass.

· Renewable resources may also include goods commodities such as wood, paper and leather.

What are nonrenewable resources?

· A nonrenewable resource is a resource of economic value that cannot be readily replaced by natural means on a level equal to its consumption.

· Does not renew itself at a sufficient rate for sustainable economic extraction in meaningful human time-frames.

Examples:

· Most fossil fuels, such as oil, natural gas and coal — their use is not sustainable because their formation takes billions of years.

Facts: Renewable Resources

1. Water can be considered a renewable material when carefully controlled usage, treatment, and release are followed. If not, it would become a non-renewable resource at that location.

2. Most food has its origin in renewable resources. Food is obtained directly from plants and animals.

3. An important renewable resource is wood provided by means of forestry, which is used for construction, housing and firewood since ancient times.

4. Plants provide the main sources for renewable resources, the main distinction is made between energy crops and Non-food crops.

5. Renewable energy refers to the provision of energy via renewable resources which are naturally replenished fast enough as being used. It includes e.g. sunlight, wind, biomass, rain, tides, waves and geothermal heat. Renewable energy may replace or enhance fossil energy supply various distinct areas: electricity generation, hot water/space heating, motor fuels, and rural (off-grid) energy services.

Facts: Nonrenewable Resources

1.Nonrenewable resources are raw materials, which take long periods of time to form.

2.Resources such as timber (when harvested sustainably) and wind (used to power energy conversion systems) are considered renewable resources, largely because their localized replenishment can occur within time frames meaningful to humans.

3. Natural resources such as coal, petroleum (crude oil) and natural gas take thousands of years to form naturally and cannot be replaced as fast as they are being consumed.

4. Non renewable resources are those natural resources that cannot be reproduced, grown or generated.

The two main type of non renewable resources are fossil fuels and nuclear fuels :

Fossil fuels include coal, petroleum, natural gas — Fossil fuels are formed by the pressure and heat applied to the organic matter, which lies deep down underground or under the ocean bed. These fossil fuels take around millions of years for its formation



Nuclear fuels make use of radioactive elements to release energy. Uranium and plutonium are the two important radioactive elements used to derive nuclear energy, which in turn is used to generate electricity on a large-scale. In fact, nuclear power provides around 14–15% of the world’s electricity