This Article Won’t Change Your Life.

But if you’ve ever found yourself lacking motivation, you should read on anyway.

I can’t stand clickbait titles. I have too much respect for you, the readers on this platform to try and grab your attention with the false premise of finding something life-changing within the words on this page. Mere words won’t change your life. But what they can do is give you a gentle nudge to get you on the right track.

We all lack motivation from time to time. Whether it be for your early morning gym workout or your efforts to lose weight, even the most committed of souls have days where they just cannot face what the dawn brings.

The World Ain’t All Sunshine And Rainbows

Motivational speech videos litter the internet at every turn. More often than not, they’ll be set to a back-drop of sports films and will almost certainly include the scene from Rocky. You know the one I mean. Oh, and watching the video daily will without a doubt completely change your life.

But the video below is different. It makes no claim to be able to change your life. Which is good, because it won’t. It does, however, claim to be the best motivational video ever made. Out of the hundreds, possibly thousands of motivational videos across the internet, this is the one that I constantly find my way back to. It’s my first port of call when I start to doubt myself, or when I find my motivation starting to wane. So for that reason, I’d say it lives up to its name.

I recommend that you watch this video. Maybe not now, but at some point. Bookmark this story and come back to it at a more convenient time. If you’ve ever struggled with the motivation to carry on, watch this video. After all, it’s only six minutes long. Are you trying to tell me you don’t have 360 seconds to change your life forever?

If you’re not seeing the results you want from the gym, or your diet, or your writing, whatever pursuit you embarked upon, watch this video. If you’ve ever looked at your life and thought ‘This isn’t where I want to be.’

Watch this video.

The next six minutes won’t change your life.

But they might just give you the kick up the arse you need to set that change in motion.