My open cell group every Saturday 06:30 PM GMT +08:00

One year ago, I am searching for the group of people who can bring out the best in me and will patiently guide me to walk through in life. Now, I found them. A group of people that is God-servant and will never stop on developing an individual to be a leader by applying the right principles based from the word of god that will be found on the holy bible.

Every Saturday, we are conducting our weekly cell group meeting via Zoom from 06:30 pm to 07:30 pm. We are doing this in the following order: Catch-up with each cell members, recreational games, knowledge-based sharing that will be useful as a professional, sharing the word of god and Lastly, the takeaways and the application of the word. Let’s go and talk about it.

1.) Catch-up with each cell members

Weekly catchup meeting

After a long and tiring week, we need to relax by diverting our environment from the workplace to a group of people that will accept, listen, care, and will support you whatever your current condition is. For example, each of our team members will ask these questions: How’s your week, is everything went well? Can you share your story? I think everyone’s story is a treasure and an opportunity for us to learn more and grow together. When I hear these kinds of words, I feel my sense of belongingness in this group. I feel like I am with my own family. After this segment, I feel relaxed because of the unconditional support and love that bring these people to me.

2.) Recreational games

An example of recreational game before knowledge based sharing

Maging pusong bata — Bitoy

According to Bitoy, he said that have a child heart even though we are already an adult. We should not forget the little things that make us happy way back that we are a child. One of the best examples is to play a game that reminds us of our childhood generation. Like, bring me, word guessing and flag identification. These games bring excitement and refresh our minds. Mind that full of technological advancement and modern world living that needs to be diverted into a new world that reminds us of our golden past that will bring us a smile every time that we will remember it.

3.) Knowledge-based sharing

Work hacks: Bringing out our 100% efficiency on work

One of the best that I love in our segment is Knowledge-Based Sharing. In this segment, one of our team members will share his experience as a professional that can be helpful to all team members. One of the best examples is this segment that you will see in the picture. Work hacks segment emphasizes the strategies and techniques on how we will cope-up with the distractions and beat the deadline with efficiency. One of them is the Pomodoro technique, a time management method that uses a timer to break down the tasks into intervals. In this manner, the employee will trigger his/her sense of urgency to help him/her to get the tasks done.

4.) Sharing the word of god and the takeaways of each members

The Holy Bible and SOL Books by Pastor César Castellanos

The best of the segment for me is the bible word sharing and the takeaways. In this segment, one of the team members will share the word of god. He/she elaborate on the bible verse and will explain it very carefully and will give an example of true to life lessons and after that, we will have breakout room sessions to share our takeaways from the speaker. By the way, one of the best examples of the bible verse that I’ve learned from this segment is:

Romans 6:23 NIV: For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

For every time that I read this verse, based on my interpretation. We must pay the price for every action that we are doing. That’s why we should be really careful about approaching life. One of the best guides that I can recommend to all of you is to read the bible because it is a life guide that can help us to expand our knowledge and horizon on exploring life.

Finally, I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to the Doulos for Christ family, Mr. Marvin Dao, Mr. Philip Paler, Mr. Dwight Padilla, and On the Flip side family for guiding me to the right path on knowing and loving our lord. Thank you to all of you, Thank you for reminding me that aside from Logic, Math and Science. The Love, Compassion, and a firm determination will bring out the best in me to become a better leader that will serve the people guided by the principles of God.

If you like this blog. We are inviting you to tune-in in our facebook page and youtube channel to explore and learn more about God. Thank you very much!

Facebook page:

Youtube channel:

References: