4 Not bad. Great first flavours with an extremely prominent toffee and vanilla making it very drinkable. After taste is a bit burnt, bit oaky – I imagine this is from the bourbon barrel. All in all a very nice flavour to mix or chuck down straight.

5 As with any whiskey in the world, some will hate it, some will love it. Me, I have enjoyed Scotch for most of my adult life. Highlands single malt is my favorite! Blended scotch is something you put in your car radiator! Haig Club, in my opinion, is an excellent, smooth, single grain Scotch. I am sure that many will argue this and many will agree. Try it yourself and then decide!

3 Having read all the bad reviews below, I was dreading my first taste and second guessing my decision to buy this reduced whisky. I'm pleased to report that l loved it. I'm no expert but often find myself wondering what all the fuss is about over single malt as I've as enjoyed scotch more. If you're the same I would description be it as a lighter version of famous grouse which I love but this could well become my new favourite and you get a lovely blue bottle. Good luck

1 Really nasty. I bought this from Tesco on offer, I liked the bottle and thought I'd seen it somewhere... when I got home I remembered I'd seen Beckham advertising it, which probably wasn't a good sign but I'd bought it and thought I'd give it a go. I couldn't finish the glass. I had two sips but it is aggressively unpleasant. I like whisky, though I prefer smooth Highland single malts to the very peaty Islay malts. This stuff is undrinkable, it didn't even taste like whisky, it smells of turps and tastes thin and acrid, like some sort of chemical waste. Don't waste your money, I'll be pouring the rest away - might keep the nice blue bottle though!

4 Excellent whisky. Very drinkable. Goes down easy like a light Japanese whiskey. Bit pricey though. There are better whiskys for a similar price.

1 It's like watered down cheap supermarket brand whiskey. I feel like I've been robbed by the shop I got it from. A least Dick Turpin had the decency to wear a mask.

5 One of the best whisky's I've ever tasted

5 It's nice. Drinkable and enjoyable and smooth. Better than most of the overpriced 10yr single malts by far.

2 I found the taste watery and insipid. It's too tasteless with no character.

1 Cheap and awful whiskey

5 Always avoided it, never been a fan of Beckham, no offence, but full credit to the man, just had my first doppy from a gift bottle and it's nice and smooth, good taste and I'll raise the next one you dad, cheers bud, you'd have enjoyed this one.

4 I don't really get all the negatives here. It is what it is. A really subtle drink. Agreed no depth but really smooth. It's an easy evening drink. My palette is in favour of the smoky peaty drinks but love this as a smooth alternative.

1 Thin, weak, cheap, basic.

1 Truly awful whisky. There is absolutely no depth of flavour and it is unpleasant to drink. Would be passable as a cheap mixer, but ridiculously overpriced. I have had some fun giving a taste to friends to see their reaction (meaning that I don't have to drink as much of it myself). All who have tried it so far agree that it is terrible. It is a shame the quality of the whisky is so bad, because the packaging and bottle look great.

1 Absolute crap! If you put one ounce in a 12 ounce can of coke, it might become drinkable. I'm giving it zero stars, but I had to choose one to get my review posted.

2 Very sweet flavour like cream soda, and light in colour. Made the younger market who wouldn't usually drink whisky. It's the alcopop of the whisky world. It's not to my taste, but not so bad that I won't finish the bottle eventually.

1 Extremely over priced and poor quality. It's really a shame that a lot of people are tricked into buying it as a gift due to the flash packaging and marketing campaign when there are so many other more fantastic bottles out there for the same price or cheaper. This is a cheap nasty 3 year old spirit, lacking any refinement, in a fancy bottle

1 Terrible, just terrible. it has a horrible burning sensation and not in a good way. If you want the nice bottle then definitely go for it. If you want a quality Whisky avoid for similar pricing you can have a 10 year Laphroaig.
