OG Kush is a classic amongst cannabis newbies and veterans alike. Yet, this famous strain’s origin remains somewhat mysterious. And the reasons go far beyond its origin as growing OG Kush (OGK) can be just as challenging as tracing its roots. But these tips will go a long way to help you grow OG Kush the right way and get the results you seek.

Brief Overview

While very little is known about its origin, OGK is known to have exceptional medicinal potential. This indica is a great choice for depression, stress, anxiety, and mood disorders.

Its uplifting and relaxing abilities also make OG Kush increasingly helpful in alleviating symptoms of Alzheimer’s. The high THC levels found in OG Kush makes it a useful treatment for many types of pain, insomnia, and nausea.

So, if you’ve been seeking a strain that is great for treating pains of all sorts, OG Kush is definitely worth a shot.

In recent years, OG Kush has been one of the most popular types of buds available on the legal market across the world.

Its smell is earthy and pungent and provides a euphoric high that is also calming and acts as a sedative. What’s more, OG Kush was already a household name in the underground cannabis industry long before legal dispensaries began springing up across the U.S and beyond.

Growing OG Kush

The OG Kush strain can be a tough one to grow; typically producing low yields if grown incorrectly. This makes the hybrid strain a risky investment for growers, especially newbies, which tends to be highly sought after but low in supply.

Regardless, OG Kush is still a highly sought-after strain because of its medicinal potential, scent, and unique taste.

Truth is, when grown correctly, the strain is a delicacy that deserves a spot on every marijuana enthusiast’s wish list.

If grown properly, you can expect around 14–18 ounces of the OG Kush cannabis per plant when grown outdoors, or approximately 16–18 ounces of marijuana per meter squared when grown indoors.

The question remains: “how do you grow OG Kush?”

Growing method

OG Kush grows well both indoors and outdoors. But it’s an especially great strain to grow indoors using either the SCROG or SOG methods to increase its yield and bud size. When growing this strain under a canopy, ensure to prune it regularly to improve airflow. What’s more, a hydroponic setup indoors can help keep the strain’s immune system intact, preventing disease.

If, however, you choose to grow it outdoors, be 100% sure you are in the right climate. Because OG Kush mainly grows in Southern California, you want to grow it under weather conditions that are identical. You should strive to get a hot and tropical climate with plenty of water and most importantly, regular full sun.

You also want to support the buds as they can become extremely heavy and dense as the plant matures. Then, of course, its dense buds make it very susceptible to bud rot when humidity is high. This makes it ideal for drier climates if grown outdoors.

Flowering time

This strain has an 8–9-week flowering period, which is average in comparison to other strains. While indoors is the most suitable location for growing OG Kush, be sure to keep your environment and climate extremely controlled.

Climate

OG Kush can handle colder nighttime temperatures and prefers lower humidity levels while flowering. Ideally, keep OG Kush at temperatures between 65- and 80-degrees Fahrenheit.

Feeding

OG Kush’s genetics require that you feed it with heavy amounts of magnesium and calcium. You also want to make sure it’s receiving enough food in flowering to allow the buds to develop to their full potential. Feed plants with compost tea to strengthen their immunity against powdery mildew.

Final thoughts on growing OG Kush

Other cannabis strains are much simpler to cultivate at-home with little experience. But even if you’re a newbie, you should never let a good challenge keep you from doing something you want. With these growing tips alongside extra care, you can now doubt grow OG Kush and produce a healthy, uber-potent yield that everyone will love.

Looking for the perfect place to buy OG Kush online? Check out Ramya Exports for everything marijuana.

Do you have any additional tips, questions, or concerns about growing the OG Kush strain? Be sure to leave a comment below!