Get the biggest politics stories by email Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Organisers of a so-called 'burkini party' at an indoor swimming pool in France have cancelled the event after they were sent bullets in the post.

Smile 13, a devout Muslim group, had planned to hold the event at a pool they had hired in the town if Les Pennes-Mirabeau, southern France.

The group had made clear women should wear swimming costumes that complied with the Islamic dress code and be covered up 'from the shoulder to the knee'.

Local MP Valerie Boyer had already called for for the event to be scrapped because the Islamic garb 'subjugates women'

And the town's mayor Michel Amiel had said he would ban the party on the grounds that it was a 'threat to public order'.

(Image: senat.fr)

But Smile 13 has now said it is cancelling the swimming session on September 10 after receiving death threats and a package containing live ammunition.

The group wrote on its Facebook page: "It's with astonishment and regret that we have noted the extent of this controversy.

"The situation has become surreal, from insults, incessant journalist requests, and death threats to members of the team."

France banned the wearing of the full-face covering burka six years ago, with former president Nicolas sarkozy calling the garment a 'walking coffin'.

(Image: Getty)

(Image: Getty)

Parliament released a statement at the time reading: "Radical practices which violate the dignity and equality between men and women, such as the wearing of the full veil, are contrary to the values of the French Republic.’

"We consider it necessary to put all appropriate measures in place to ensure the protection of women who are subjected to violence and pressure, and in particular are forced to wear the full veil."

French courts can now impose a one-year prison sentences and fines of up to 14,000 on men who force their wives to wear a burka.

Women face a smaller fine of 100 pounds because they are 'often victims with no choice in the matter', the law states.