In attempts to get up to pace with humanity’s lift-off in technological and civil advancements, human beings are enshrouding themselves in the cacophony of self-help books, productivity blogs, educational YouTube videos, and personal development podcasts.

Raymond Tang, who spoke on a TED stage last year, felt the same way. He thought the relentlessly quick-shifting world was too much for him to grapple and he was practically drowning in his own self-consciousness. Then, he started reading self-help books. But the more he got into this habit — the more books he read — the more anxious and restless he became.

“It was like feeding my mind with junk food and I was becoming mentally obese”

Then, out of pure serendipity, as he was looking through the self-help shelf in a bookstore, he came across a small book called Tao Te Ching. It was a 2600 year old manuscript about the ancient Chinese philosophy of the Tao and its virtues. “It was by far the thinnest and smallest book in the bookshelf”, he said. “It had only 81 pages, and each page had a poem”.

One particular page in that book changed his life.

An excerpt from the Tao Te Ching, Passage #8

He was so profoundly moved after reading the short verse that he admittedly started reciting and practicing its principles on a daily basis. After years of actualisation, here are 3 things Raymond learned from the virtues of water.

Humility

“Water always stays low”

Water provides nourishment for plants to grow, it sustains the ecosystem of a vast biodiversity inside it, and it serves the billions of human beings that depend their lives on it. Water does all this, without drawing much attention to itself. In a world that emphasises the values of knowing the answers to everything, water teaches us to be okay with saying “I don’t know, I want to learn more, and I need your help.”

Water teaches us to shift our focus from me, to you — to redirect the attention from yourself to the people around you. Rather than promoting the success and glory of yourself, it is more satisfying to promote the success and glory of others. That way, life and the world becomes more exciting.