2018 is the Year of bitJob!

The $STU$ Economy Progress Updates

Dear Community!

We have been hard at work wrapping up 2017 here at bitJob.

As we transition towards multiple major milestones, the team would like to give you some updates regarding the current progress of the Platform:

Re-branding & a Fresh PR Agency

We have made significant changes to the brand and logo, that we think are more reflective of our target demographic. We hope you will like it!

Look for our new media assets as soon as the new site goes live.

On the PR section, we secured the services of one the best out there, for sure in our crypto space, the PR Agency Blonde 2.0.

HODL!!!

New Site & Roadmap

Look forward to our newly designed site, which should be live on during this January. Besides an improved user interface, the site will be fully operational, and feature enhanced functionality as well a few surprises.

Stay tuned for more details!

International Pilot

Miss Marloes Pomp, the Dutch Blockchain Projects’ executive director, will assist us with the launch of our pilot in Holland, as Dutch and Israeli students will transact with SMEs & SMBs from all around the world.

Using our own $STU$, we are building an incentive Win-Win based Affiliate Program. This means that using $STU$, we are Creating New Revenue Models for every Business, HR Agency and Student Union on Earth!

We have already begun the process of on-boarding students for this pilot program; and expect a soft launch by a tentative (March 29th, 2018).

Due to the contractual nature of these partnerships, we will release more detailed information on the exact institutions and businesses involved once we are closer to the launch date, and the agreements are finalized.

Additional Exchanges

We are still actively expanding our exchange listings, in order to bring more capitalization and liquidity to our token economy. We are currently in partnership with MLG, a firm that specializes in exchange listing, to facilitate this process. Expect to see many more exchanges in the upcoming quarter, and increasingly larger exchanges as we make a name for our token offering!

Trezor Deliveries

After a very log wait (we appreciate your patience!) we are proud to present to you the bitJob branded Trezor, our reward for your dedication and participation in the contribution process. The majority of Lottery lucky winners should have received this shipment by now.

There is a known issue with those users that well allocated more that one unit. If you have not yet received your Trezor, please send an email to leonard@bitjob.io so that we can ensure your your wallet makes it to you as soon a possible!

Our CEO & co-founder, Dror Medalion

There is a known issue with those users that well allocated more that one unit. If you have not yet received your Trezor, please send an email to leonard@bitjob.io so that we can ensure your your wallet makes it to you as soon a possible!

It was a Happy New Year for $STU$

The Power of the bitJob Community

Last week, we got a sheer example of what bitJob can become.

We all want to see our $STU$ Mooning, and it starts with you, with your family, with your friends, with your business / workplace.

It is as simple as it can get.

We as a community have the power to build a better place for our children. And it starts today!

We encourage you to share your leads regarding relevant businesses (Global SMEs / SMBs is awesome) from all around the world, who would love to join our pilot!

Contact us Today! Info@bitJob.io

bitJob Ambassador Program

Are you motivated, love crypto, and excited about the potential of the bitJob Project?

Help us and Spread the bitJob Gospel!

We are currently in the process of developing a reward program for our most enthusiastic ‘STU-dents!’. Get rewarded with cool bitJob merchandise and prizes for spreading the word about our project; you can even earn the STU token for your efforts! Please stand by while we finalize the details of our program, we will release more details then.

— — — — — — — — — — — — — —