Credit: Antonio Pasciucco on iStock

A damaged steam vessel loses track of its original design. It suddenly begins lacking in all areas of control. The only direct command it can comprehend is “listen and push”. It requires repairs, a job that will hammer hot iron within to reconstruct the locomotive.

Haunting thoughts of weakness and anger begin teasing the outdated design. Exhaling steam from the smokebox as gears and gadgets continue to work, lift, and reshape mental boundaries.

Looking back towards the tender side unleashes a variety of forceful obstacles. Relapses of construction are considered hindrances. A position, a location, a touch, a taste, all simple pleasantries that once aided the vessel.

A heavy weight piles into the firebox, more and more heat begins to push it to it’s very limit. Dry laced fingers and bulging chaliced palms suffer from bursts of red, flowing within each grip. Each surrounding vein activates as the sincerity of inner strength awakens.

It has decided to leave the depths of the dismal hillside and climb up and out of this place of weakness and doubt. It moves rampant through an overwhelming atmosphere with an unchecked palpable force.

The craft listens to the surrounding setting, motivating itself to create the necessary amount of adrenaline to flow throughout its entirety. A valve gear begins to weaken, the continuous pushing is beginning to wear and tear on the vessel. Shaky uncertainty causes the vessel to peer down and demand in question, “Is that all you’ve got?”

The hand tightens and returns to its place to apply more than the necessary force to lift, push, and defy mental boundaries. The driving wheels suffer but the vessel grows to endure. Wishful thinking creates a rare heat which melds the piece to its prior and forever position.

Over time the vessel’s body has become newly forged. It’s been melted down to it’s core with different dry compounds only to have been beaten into steel. The locomotive has become durable enough to absorb heavy hits, low blows, and is prepared to go pounding through the darkest hours with steady white plumes.

© Gaston King, all rights reserved.