How To Get Past Writing That First Chapter

Hint: Stop rewriting!

Photo by Hannah Skelly on Unsplash

If you’re like me and have multiple draft manuscripts in your writing folder that never get past that first chapter, here are a few helpful hints I’ve picked up along the way to get you to that final chapter.

Plot Your Storyline

I’m fairly organised with my writing schedule, but I consider myself to be a plantser in regards to my writing style. That’s smack-bang in between a plotter and a pantser. If you’d like to read more about plotters and pantsers, here’s an article I wrote about it:

Having a plot outline is easy if you’re a plotter. It comes naturally. But if you’re a pantser or a plantser, like me, then sometimes going with the flow means nothing gets done.

Creating a plot outline gives you the confidence to know where you’re writing towards so you don’t keep rewriting that first chapter because your storyline keeps changing every second.

It doesn’t have to be as intricate as Joseph Heller’s plot outline for Catch-22.

Joseph Heller’s detailed plot outline

A plot outline can be as simple as filling in the blanks. Here’s a simple plot outline that I created:

Fill-in-the-blanks simple plot outline template

Having a plot outline of where your manuscript is headed is one way to ensure you get past writing (or rewriting) that first chapter.

Put Perfectionism In Its Place

I don’t know about you but perfectionism plays a big part in my struggle to get past that first chapter. Just when you think you’ve written the ‘perfect’ chapter, you re-read it and find major flaws. The structure just isn’t working. Or you realise you’ve written the word ‘that’ 128 times. You do a quick edit and let the manuscript ‘rest’. You come back a week later (because you’re too impatient to leave it on the shelf any longer) and realise there are more things that need fixing. You change the perspective to first-person, but that doesn’t work, so you change it back to third-person again. After another edit, you realise the entire first chapter is probably ‘back story,’ and you need to start all over again…

If any of this sounds familiar, then you too may be suffering from perfectionism. It’s not all bad news though. Perfectionists get a lot done. But we are also in constant fear of not getting a lot done. We procrastinate because we haven’t got around to doing everything on our list. We’re anxious. Fearful of criticism. The list goes on. If you want to read more about perfection, here’s my take on it:

Just Keep Writing

It’s a simple tip but can be the most difficult to follow. Having the guts to keep going even when you think you’re failing (or you have failed) is a hallmark of success. When you don’t have enough hours in the day to write, then do it tomorrow. Just don’t stop writing. Don’t beat yourself up about not keeping to a strict writing schedule, because life is unpredictable and we are only human, after all. The important lesson to take away is to keep at it. Just keep writing and you will succeed.