This feels good. I have the tool to write articles in Medium. Now it’s a matter of talent, wits, effort, and luck.

If there is an article that should have a monument built in its honor, it’s “The Best Medium Article Formatting Guide” by Casey Botticello.

In that beautiful article, you will learn everything, or for sure more than enough.

You feel like talking with Professor Oak, who welcomes you to the Medium world.

I smile because of two things while writing this article. First, the embedded story, which links to “The Best Medium Article Formatting Guide,” was originally a screenshot with a link.

However, when I was collecting the texts for the bullet list below, I realized that what was pertinent was to embed the story as I ended up doing following the guide’s steps.

It was also funny that to make the list of things you will find in the article, I went to look for how to make a list. The same happened to mention the author using the “@” and setting the Kicker for this article.

I used to look for every little thing I didn't know how to do. Now I save a lot of time because of this valuable resource.

When you are in the formatting guide, press “Ctrl +F” to activate a search box where you write the keyword of what you want to do. For example, to make a list and with faith that the answer was there, I wrote “bullet.” And there it was.

And here is the list of topics you will find in the guide:

Titles, Subtitles, Headers, and Subheaders

kickers

Quotes

Drop Caps

Leaving Private Notes

Keyboard Shortcuts

Creating Lists

Friend Link

Medium Scheduling Posts

Mentioning Medium Users

Custom Meta Description

Canonical Link

Image Formating

Embedding Content

T K Notes

Code Blocks

Word Count

Revision History

Publish as Unlisted

Customize Title and Subtitle of Your Story

Customize Story Link

Import a Story to Medium

Export and Backup Your Medium Articles

Save to Medium

After expressing my due gratitude, I will go and clap ten times to that article because it deserves no less than that score.