A mentally ill woman shot dead by police told an emergency dispatcher she felt she was “pure evil” and was going to kill her mother, an inquest heard Wednesday. Sylvia Klibingaitis, 52, called 911 on the morning of Oct. 7, 2011, and asked for the police to be sent to her North York home.

Sylvia Klibingaitis, diagnosed with mixed-episode bipolar disorder, was shot dead by police in October 2011.

“I’m about to kill people,” she said, breathing heavily. “I have a deadly weapon and I can use it.” The chilling audio was played at a coroner’s inquest into the fatal police shootings of three mentally ill people. Klibingaitis was shot dead by a Toronto police officer who responded to the 911 call. Klibingaitis tells the dispatcher she has a knife that is “about a foot long” and she is in her mother’s bedroom. Asked if she wants to kill her mother, who is in the bathroom, Klibingaitis says yes.

Article Continued Below

“Ma’am, why do you want to kill your mother?” the dispatcher asks. “I’m pure evil,” Klibingaitis replies softly. The inquest has heard that Klibingaitis, a deeply religious woman, believed the voice of Jesus had spoken to her, saying she was “condemned” and would never receive eternal life because of all the people she had harmed. A psychiatrist testified Tuesday that he had never found any evidence of her having harmed people, although she may have felt guilty about past traumatic events. During the 911 call, which lasts about nine minutes, Klibingaitis tells the dispatcher she has bipolar disorder.

“Did something happen that made you want to kill (your mother)?” the dispatcher asks. Klibingaitis says no, and does not respond to questions about why she has a knife. The dispatcher repeatedly urges her to put down the knife and walk outside through the front door. Klibingaitis ignores the dispatcher’s requests at first, before saying she doesn’t have a cordless phone.

Article Continued Below

Asked if she can leave the phone off the hook, Klibingaitis does not respond, although her breathing can still be heard. Then, her breathing disappears as the dispatcher frantically calls out, “Sylvia, are you still there? Hello? Hello?” Shortly after, her mother can be heard stepping out of the bathroom as the phone is off the hook. She murmurs, “Something very bad happening in our neighbourhood,” according to counsel to the coroner Michael Blain. Klibingaitis was shot by police after she left the home, still holding the knife. The officer who fired the fatal shots is expected to testify this week. Toronto EMS responded to a call at 9:42 a.m. saying a woman had been shot. She was found without a pulse and pronounced dead at 10:26 a.m. at Sunnybrook hospital, testified paramedic Lorne Burns. Klibingaitis’s sisters, Lili Steer and Anita Wasowicz, sat with their heads bowed as their troubled sister’s last words were heard. Steer has said that Klibingaitis was her “best friend” from childhood until the day she died.