Introduction

Hello everyone. My name is Bob (not a name). I chose the title for this article from two possible options, but one of them remained the most appropriate:

1) Why crypto is the most dangerous way to invest;

2) Why crypto is the most profitable way to invest.

In fact, everything was based on the situation described below (I think you have already guessed about this).

People love money

The essence of people, unfortunately, is that everyone wants a bigger share for themselves. Everyone, even if it is not noticeable, always wants to be better, always wants to be richer. Everyone perceives it differently.

With the advent of cryptocurrency assets, people’s minds have changed. People have become more greedy. Let me give you an example: 4 years ago I "lived" with my family, giving all my free time to them. Now, 4 years later, I "live" in the world of virtual assets. Yes, damn it, I wasted 4 years. I haven’t earned anything. I am addicted to cryptocurrencies.

Why is crypto the worst way to go?

Cryptocurrencies are a highly volatile type of asset, the value of which can be "established", for example, with one or two tweets from Mr. Musk (Tesla’s CEO; he is still a speculator, and, one day, he will answer for his affairs. But that is not the point). Musk raised and lowered the rates of bitcoin, doge and other crypto assets. He is the crypto baron of our day, like the late John McCaffey (Mccafey Antivirus software creator).

Cryptocurrencies are ideal for wealthy people as a tool for building capital.

They say correctly: "You can become a millionaire in two minutes only if you are a trillionaire"

Does the same Elon Musk understand this? Ordinary people who enter this scary world [world of cryptocurrencies - author’s note] only lose here due to the factors described above.

Well, there are people who have become rich thanks to cryptocurrencies, but there are only a few of them. Most lose EVERYTHING. Money is, of course, important, no matter who says what, but time wasted is much more important.

How the market works

I think most people understand that the market works on a give-and-take basis. Money cannot be generated out of thin air.

In the world of finance, especially in the world of investment, feather sharks eat small pawns that are trying to build up their positions.

“Every win is someone’s loss” are wise words.

This must be understood.

If you entered the investment market, with a probability of 99.99%, be prepared for the fact that you will lose, since this is all run by huge people.

What is the way out?

Did it ever exist?

A person like me who understands that getting into investing is like a game of roulette:

• you will win at least something -> you will take away, perhaps, the last bread from the family of your father, who decided to become richer in this way, but something went wrong...

• you will lose everything -> someone will become richer at the expense of you and will not even notice it…

Not everyone understands this.

Also, by the way, there is a casino.

Administrators of various gambling projects do not pay winnings from their salaries. More often than not, they always benefit from their casino.

Payouts, intended to the people, who accidentally catched 2X’s in crush game, formed by those who had lost every single cent. Here is the conclusion that nothing appears just like that.

Conclusion

Just SOME words TO you PEOPLE: do good and good will come to you.

I have done.