Newsletter / Insta-love short

Writing Hard and Put Away Wet!

A fall fantasy story. We are teaching and need your support as followers, and what’s ahead going into fall. Bella Cooper Follow Sep 10 · 6 min read

Hey guys, fall is coming and around Bella Cooper Books it’s a special time of the year. Coming from Germany, there was October Fest, fasching or fastnacht (or Karneval in the north, in November, suck it Thanksgiving), Christmas day (first and second one). Combined with all the American holidays and it’s a fun time a year. When your drunk aunt blows the neighbor, or your dad gets caught with your best friend, and of course school started again, slutty teacher/student stories really start the season. Who doesn’t like chicks in glasses? Yes, it’s that party time a year with vacation and time on your hands, and why a lot of babies are born mid year.

Artwork commissioned by Bella Cooper Books

Projects ahead.

To that end I tend to start doing the holiday themed stuff again. Some projects that I started last year will resurface. I have a comedy which started with the succubus, which needs a witch and a vampire. Some Christmas breeding with the babysitter (cause I mean that’s when you do it right) and the drunk in-laws for Thanksgiving. I riddle the season with sex and debauchery.

Oh, I teach, my husband and I.

Some may not know this, but my husband and I teach short story writing. My husband has started a twitch stream where he does writing sprints as he explains the method (he also plays games on twitch). So if you’re interested or just want to join in for a writing sprint head over and check out EbonSpore (it’s free) and follow him (that would really help a lot, please and thank you!)

I am helping set up the discussions, but I hate getting in front of the camera. I don’t need the extra pounds. I will take a lot of his content and put it up in a class format for an online class. The only difference between his method and mine is obviously I specialize in a particular content, which will be a special module.

Short story

That fucker…

I have been an editor at that place for years. Now this, this Indie piece of shit comes in and takes the senior job I worked so hard for. Fuck him, I quit.

“Come on Megan,” my boss said.

“Fuck you Bob, that was my job.”

“He sells books, a lot of books.”

“Smut, he sells porn and… Ughh, fuck you.”

I picked up my box and left, slamming the door behind me. I hated this. I hate to leave. I hated that Bob was right. The guy sold books, a lot of books. I went by the store and got a pint of ice cream and went home to sulk.

About midnight I was sick to my stomach from the ice cream. There was a knock on the door. What the fuck. It must be one of my neighbor’s horny boyfriends. They get drunk and come for booty calls and knock on the wrong door. I always say I am going to let one in and have my way with them. Why not? And so I put my long hair back in a ponytail as I pulled open the door.

“Come for a booty call…” I started to say, and it was him, the guy that took my job. I froze.

“I could tell there was some sexual tension between us, but you didn’t have to quit. We could have worked something out,” he smiled at me. Fuck him and his sexy green eyes.

“What do you want?”

“I’ll take the booty call,” he said.

“Fuck you.”

“You just can’t turn it off, can you,” he said.

“Like I said, what do you want, I’m in my pajamas and…”

He stepped in and pulled me close, and kissed me. His hands all over my body as he pushed his way inside and closed the door. My pussy was a swamp in a second and I just needed to be held so badly. I lost it and kissed him back. “I know I’m not who you’re expecting for the booty call. Is it serious? I can go,” he said softly.

It’s just like him to wind me the fuck up and then be all charming and respectful. Leaving me hanging in my moral dilemma. I pulled him in close and we kissed softly. Fuck, he felt so right. I pulled him to the bedroom by his tie.

It was so natural to be naked with him. Having only two pieces of clothes to remove helped. His lips on my breasts. I wasn’t prepped for this. I would have shaved my pussy, I would have showered at least. He came out of his clothes like he was shedding a second skin like the snake he was and slipped between my legs. Jesus Christ, he was smooth and sexy and… “God it’s been too long, fuck me.”

The moment he slid his cock into my pussy, there was no denying I was his completely. I knew that. I held him as he hammered my pussy. I love this, that first fuck. “I fucking hate you,” I said, as he made me feel better than I had in months.

“I know, I’m sorry,” he said.

“Just keep fucking me.”

We screwed for what must have been twenty-five minutes. I knew he could have come long ago, but he was working me toward an orgasm, and I loved that. I came hard, my pussy pulsing around his cock. He smiled and kissed my neck. “You’re so tight, I love how your pussy feels,” he said.

“Thanks, but I’m not that tight,” I said, kissing his shoulder. I have a bad habit of not taking a compliment well.

“Must be my huge cock stretching you then,” he said. Of course he did. He’s such a pig, but I love his cock. His pace picked up, and I could tell he was going to come. I wrapped my legs around him and locked him in again.

“Come in me,” I said. He didn’t say anything but let loose a torrent of cum inside my pussy.

He and I made love that night. We were so sweaty I had to change the sheets after. As I clung to this man, I hated myself just a little for being so into him. But I couldn’t help it.

“Still mad at me?” he asked.

“No. I was never mad at you, I just wanted the job.”

“Come back.”

“That depends. What is this? Are you into me? Or am I just a booty call?”

“Fuck, Megan, I have been into you since we met. I… I love you.”

“Then no, I won’t come back.”

“What?”

“I’ll stay home and let you bring me all that mad money you’re going to make as a senior editor, I’ll stay home and write some really good Indie erotica, not that shit you write,” I said as I swung my leg over him and sat back down on his hard cock again. “Besides, day care is so expensive and I want to stay home with the baby.”

“You’re pregnant? That’s fantastic. Who’s the dad,” he said rubbing my belly.

I hit him playfully. “I love you. I’m sorry, I guess I am just moody. I wanted to tell you today, I didn’t know how. Then they hit me with the news and…”

“It’s ok. Of course, you get whatever you want,” he said and flipped me over for another deep fucking.

I remembered when they hired him, just before Halloween last year. Fuck, he was so sexy. I had never turned into a slut as quickly in my life. His cock felt so good in that supply room at work. We fucked so much, but then I broke it off because we worked together. What an idiot. I missed him these past few months, but he’s back and I’m not letting him go again.