Now that we understand exactly what is being done, we can try to identify what it actually is. Today’s propaganda techniques borrow heavily from three other concepts: fascism, PSYOPS, and reflexive control.

Fascism

The term fascism is widely used but broadly misunderstood. It is derived from the ancient Roman word fasces, which is a bundle of rods (or arrows) bound together with a strap, and an axe blade projecting from the bundle. This symbol was used to signify the power of a magistrate in Ancient Rome.

The modern idea of fascism came from Mussolini’s Italy, and was borrowed from the Sicilian concept of fasci, meaning “men organized for political purposes.”

Fascism is thus a literal bundling together of interest groups to wield political power and to achieve political ends. It is an aggregation of aggrieved audiences.

Contemporary right-wing propaganda is thus literally fascist in nature, inasmuch as it aims to build a voting bloc from many smaller audiences.

PSYOPS

PSYOPS is a military term meaning “psychological operations.” It was developed as a technology rooted in modern behavioral science and psychology, and aims to exert control over a population to achieve military objectives.

For example, in managing the aftermath of the military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, it was desirable that the many factions present in those countries support US military operations, or at the very least, that any opposition be minimized and managed.

To do this, coalition military forces deployed PSYOPS techniques as a kind of weapon aimed at achieving its goals.

According to SCL Group, a leading practitioner of military PSYOPS techniques, here are the steps involved in planning an effective behavioral modification campaign:

Identify the objective: what do you want people to do; how do you want them to behave, or not behave? Strategic Communication Planning: what messages do you want to convey to produce the desired behavior? Target Audience Analysis: what audiences exist, and what are their belief systems and goals that may affect whether you can get them to adopt the desired behavior? Campaign Intervention Strategy: how does your strategic communication need to be tailored to produce the desired behavior in each of your target audiences?

In PSYOPS, the goal is to produce a specific behavior — by any means necessary. This means that you may or may not be wishing to alter someone’s belief system for the better, and you may or may not be conveying information that is true. Your only concern is activating the target audience and getting them to behave in the way you desire.

Alexander Nix, CEO of SCL Group, likes to make this comparison: if you own a piece of beachfront property and you want to keep people from swimming there, which sign works better? One that says “NO SWIMMING, PRIVATE PROPERTY,” or one that says “SHARKS SEEN IN WATER”? The answer is obvious, even if the information conveyed isn’t factual.

Through the identification of many specific target audiences, modern propagandists are actually able to conduct PSYOPS by tailoring messages (true or not) intended to modify behavior and delivering them with incredible precision.

Reflexive Control

If you have ever tried to get someone to make a decision favorable to you, while having them think that the decision was their idea, you have practiced reflexive control — a concept studied and developed in the Soviet Union (and now Russia) over the last 50 years.

Reflexive Control (RC) aims to influence the decision of an enemy by transmitting information that informs their decision-making process while keeping the desired outcome secret. The desired outcome must be kept secret in order for the target to be convinced that the decision is truly their own. If the decision is their own, it is much easier for them to gain the support of their constituents.

By flooding the information landscape to influence’s the opponent’s decision-making process (which may incorporate details about individual psychology and exploit personal weaknesses), the practitioner of RC can induce a desired outcome in an opponent without their conscious knowledge.