Another new recording of Donald Sterling has been released, this one coming from The Daily Mail, who obtained the tape from a friend of Sterling's named "Maserati," described as a hip-hop artist who the New York Post says arranged hookups for Sterling in Las Vegas.

Here is a excerpt from The Daily Mail story, including some alleged comments from Sterling.

Sterling claims stunning V. Stiviano ‘loves sex’ and was an ‘animal’ between the sheets and admits he paid a 'high-price' to sleep with her. And he told his friend that he fears the stunning wannabe model may have saucy photos of them in bed together, which he worries may be leaked to the media. Sterling said: ‘I’m paying a very high price for trying to get a girl hot and make it with her. Everybody in the world wants to f--- her. Listen, I’m telling you she was hot. It took me maybe an hour to get there but it was hot. So why did I do it? Because I’m 80-years-old.'

This new set of tapes were recorded "four or five days" after the initial scandal broke.

These tapes shine a very different light on Sterling compared with what we saw in his interview with Anderson Cooper. This recording shows Sterling as man surprised by what has happened, and embarrassed that his private goings-on had been made public, with his lifetime accomplishments being tarnished by an indiscretion with a young woman.

Sterling also allegedly says that Stiviano is "the most discriminatory person I have ever met," and claims that she is the real racist."

Stiviano allegedly told him: ‘God made me black. I didn’t want to be black. All my brothers and sisters are Mexican. Do you know what it is like to wake up every morning and want to be white?’ He says Stiviano, who has a Mexican mother and an African-American father, hates her dark coloring so much that she bleaches her skin in a bid to appear more ‘white’. ‘She tried so hard to make her skin white,’ said Sterling. ‘She did it every night – her feet and her hands. She asked me “did I like black skin?” I really didn’t think about the color of her skin.’ Sterling clearly had other things on his mind during this exchange with his much younger girlfriend, ‘I’m just waiting to play with her,’ he told his friend. She then told him: ‘I will never go with a black guy.’ Sterling added: ‘Then I said don’t bring any to the games. I’m so stupid…I was just jealous.'

Sterling allegedly goes on to say that Stiviano "lured him into her trap," and that he showered her with millions of dollars while courting her."