Isaac Asimov wrote his epic Foundation books spanning 30 years from the 1950s till the 1980s, describing the fate of the almighty Galactic Empire - encompassing the Milky Way, colonizing myriads of systems, Galaxies.

Although the Empire was seemingly at its peak, basking in its sense of invincibility, infallibility, a unique scientist — practicing psychohistory, a combined science of human nature, history, natural evolution expressed through mathematical formulas — predicted the inevitable, imminent fall of the Empire and an ensuing millennia-long turbulent, dark, suffering-filled transitional period until a new, stable, sustainable Human system can be formed again.

The protagonist suggests the establishment of unique Foundations, through which the transitional period could be reduced to a few hundred years, preventing unnecessary suffering. Although nobody actually believes his outrageous claims, instead of convicting him of treason they allow him to establish those Foundations and then they forget about him.

The Empire falls exactly as the protagonist predicted he puts his rescure plan into motion with the help of two initial Foundations — one to collect all Human knowledge into a single Encyclopedia to help to establish a new, efficient, powerful and progressive Human entity based on solid, natural science; and another hidden one with unique psychohistorians capable of influencing, correcting the flow of history with special psychic abilities they learn and develop together. They use those psychic abilities to oversee and guide the initial rescue plan to shorten the destructive transitional period.

In the end, even the role of those Foundations is surpassed, and the final solution for Humanity is found in an unprecedented, collective, planetary consciousness, complete unity as the most effective form of Human existence to solve problems and prevent any threatening, cataclysmic events.

Today our own, proud, modern Human civilization is in the same state as the Galactic Empire before its collapse. We are also immersed in our own self-serving, self-justifying but unsustainable system (which is already on life support), proudly basking in our own narcissistic glory while turning a blind eye to the increasing problems that threaten the very foundations of our societies.

And while the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown gave us a unique time if reflection, pause in our self-destructing activities, with enough examples to see how wrong our present approach is and how we could change, most people simply do not get the message.

More precisely many people accept the need for change, many agree that our present excessive, overproduction, overconsumption system that behaves as cancer in nature’s fully integrated and interdependent system isn’t sustainable, when it comes to implementation we close our eyes and blindly try to run back to our previous lives as if nothing happened, waiting for a miracle.

Their reaction is understandable. The system we have been living in is familiar, it suits our inherently selfish, egocentric, individualistic nature. Just like those musicians on the deck of the Titanic, we feel safe as long as we are surrounded by our usual objects, usual entertainment, gadgets, and the gound is not burning under our feet yet, the rising water has not reached our moth yet.

For those who already feel the absolute need for change and who want to act on it this naive ignorance, disinterest is mind-boggling, extremely frustrating, blood boiling. But there is nothing to do, people do not change by coercion, scaremongering — even if they do that is temporary and they rebound as soon as they can. Most people cannot be touched talked to until they will feel danger, imminent destruction on their own flesh.

Thus — just like in Asimov's books — Humanity’s fate depends on new Foundations, on a handful of people all over the world, who cannot return to the old life any longer, who simply have to move on, become pioneers even if they also do not have a clear knowledge of what the new “world”, Human system looks like, since we have to go through unprecedented changes before we can build it.

We will also need to take a unique “Encyclopedia”, a special educational method that is based on Nature’s most fundamental laws that sustain the balance and homeostasis life and positive development depends on. And we also need special, closed, mutually supportive and mutually complementing environments with “special powers” — an unprecedented effort to annul themselves towards each other in order to reach similarity, “matching frequency” with Nature’s system and by that to acquire the ability to harness, methodically use Nature's evolutionary force to raise themselves above their inherent nature so they can unite into a single network.

By that they — like those psychohistorians in the Foundation books — can also guide the rest of Humanity towards positive, benevolent changes, gradually shifting the present self-destructive development towards a positive, constructive path.

Humanity stands at unprecedented crossroads. The recruitment and assembly of the above-mentioned pioneers have started, as the imminent collapse of our present self-serving, self-justifying “Empire” is around the corner, thus the new Foundations have a huge responsibility on their shoulders.