Fans also slammed MAKEUP mogul Jeffree Star over the launching of his latest set of Cremated cosmetics during the coronavirus pandemic.

The controversial online personality, 34, called the line his “favorite thing” he is ever done but indignant fans disagree, dragging the drop as “tone deaf.”

The new line of Jeffree is darkly themeed around death, and was branded by fans as “tone deaf”. The “tone deaf” launch has shocked fans of the online personality.

Jeffree teased “get ready to be deceased,” while promoting the death-themed line ahead of its Friday launch.

The goods are wrapped in black and white marble packaging with an urn printed on the front. Jeffree’s Cremated palette includes eye shadows titled “Burial Gown,” “Casket Ready,” “DeathBlow,” and “Eulogy.”

He also included the names “Grave Digger,” “Obituary,” “Death Certificate,” “R.I.P.,” “The Morgue,” “Angel of Death,” and more that are darkly centered around dying.

He told fans “get ready to be deceased” when selling the items The social media star named the set his “favorite thing” for the dark theme palette: “R.I.P,” “Death Certificate,” and “Goodbye”

Fans were immediately shocked at the “extremely bad timing” of its release because, according to the CDC, more than 85,000 confirmed deaths were registered in the United States alone due to COVID-19.

One livid critic tweeted: “J*ffree st*r releasing a palette called CREMATED in the middle of a pandemic is so f**king tone deaf.”

“My grandma had to be cremated after she died from Covid. This seems like bad timing for such a product,” someone heartbreakingly answered.

Another fired off: “This is tone deaf and in extremely poor taste. No matter it went into production pre-pandemic, now is not the time.”

Fans were livid, during the global pandemic, he released the Cremated line. Some followers raised the possibility that mortuaries were overfilled during the health crisis.

Somebody who urged his fans to stop supporting the YouTuber stated: “Jeffree Star rly released a CREMATION themed palette in the middle of a global pandemic in which the bodies of thousands killed by covid are being cremated.

“And STILL his deranged lil fans will eat it up lmao. i’m so tired when will that voldemort nosferatu looking c**t just…”

He disclosed on Jeffree’s YouTube channel that the palette was originally set to drop in April but was postponed due to COVID-19.

The online personality said he was excited for a “dark, gothic spring,” but as the release was pushed back, fans would now have to settle for a “dark summer.” He has not yet commented on the uproar from the makeup line.

Do not forget leaving your valuable comment on this piece of writing and sharing with your near and dear ones. To keep yourself up-to-date with Information Palace, put your email in the space given below and Subscribe. Furthermore, if you yearn to know about the respond of Snoop Dogg, view our construct, ‘Snoop Dogg Responds to 6ix9ine’s Instagram “Snitch” Allegation!’