I choose to keep my log in my journal because handwriting helps retain information, because I can create my own symbols and layouts, and because that’s where I keep almost everything else.

But if you prefer, you can also use digital apps such as Evernote, which allow you to move things around and organize thoughts by tags.

You can also keep it analog but use separate cards instead of a notebook, or use a calendar — or whatever feels best for you. You will notice that your log will keep changing with time, and this is a reflection of your own ever-changing nature as a human being.

You’re the one who’s going to be using the log, so adapt it to your own personality and preferences. No matter which format you choose, just make sure it’s easy and fun to use; otherwise, you won’t stick with the habit.

Before You Start…

Here’s a little secret I realized after using this system for a while: it’s not actually my future self who benefits the most from this practice — it’s me, right now.

Of course, it’s useful to have access to all this data. But it’s even more useful to have a mental framework that helps me think, consolidate, and summarize information.

Because I know that in the evening I will have to fill out the log, I live my days in a different way. I am constantly on the lookout for signs and opportunities to improve. I recognize good ideas when they surface, and I memorize them. I ask more questions. I am aware of things I had never seen before.

Sometimes the evening comes and I feel that I have nothing really important to write down on my log. Nevertheless, I include whatever comes to mind — even if the most relevant things I can come up with that day are about grocery shopping or house cleaning.

Don’t worry if at first, it seems like you have nothing to write about, or if you have so much in your head that it’s hard to choose what to keep in your log. It’s all a part of the process, and your practice will change with time, as will your approach to life, memory, and note-taking.

For me, the benefits of keeping a log are invaluable, and I keep observing new ones as time goes by. Here are some of them:

I base my goal-setting methodologies on solid data, and they are more effective.

Every week I set weekly and monthly goals. Before, I used to base it solely on feelings, thoughts, or other people’s approaches to goal setting. Now, I base it on real evidence.

I can’t escape from my own problems.

And that’s great. A while ago I noticed that every day I was writing in my log that I was not reading enough, not learning enough, not making time for studying. I became so frustrated with writing the same thing every day on my log that I eventually created a morning slot for studying, and the problem was solved. The same happened with emotional eating and improving my communication skills.

I am quicker at coming back from emotional lows.

Looking back through my achievements and lessons makes me see how much I have actually accomplished. It shows me that everything is temporary, and it reminds me of the skills and lessons I need to overcome any problem.

I am more consistent.

At its very core, the 5-Bullet-Log is a daily practice that requires consistency. Once I created this routine and made it non-negotiable, I started becoming more consistent with other habits as well, such as taking notes after conversations and events, habit tracking, and journaling in general.

But most of all, it helps me separate the wheat from the chaff. I have plenty of ideas and observations, but having to choose the most important ones every day tells me a lot about what I value in life, what my current focus is, and what I need to let go of.