Pan India Supply Delivery Of Small Batch Production Part

We Make Cost-Effective

Low Volume Production 3D Printing At Your Doorstep

15+ Unique engineering & Biocompatible material

10 industries Served

5 to 5000 parts can be produced per day

End to End digital manufacturing service Portfolio

3D Scanning

3D Reverse Engineering

Low Volume Production

3D Inspection

OVERVIEW

Our PRECISE3DM Digital manufacturing service transforms the Indian manufacturing industry to produce low-volume end-use plastic parts without making any tool or mold using 3d printing technology. Complex function parts are 3D Printed directly from CAD design with fine geometries and complex features at a significantly lower cost. Our process also significantly reduces the lead time for production from months to days or hours in a short timeframe. Unlike traditional manufacturing methods, which need dedicated tooling and molds, The 3d printed parts made are superior in strength, finish, smoothness, weight, repeatability, accuracy, and execution over manually fabricated components.

KEY FEATURES

Our DM service is Ultra-Fast & Affordable, with same-day prototyping and low volume production without making any tool.

An alternative to traditional injection molding that enables designs to go straight from CAD to manufacturing without tooling or delay

We use 3Dsdsystems resin materials that are production and indirect production-grade and certified biocompatible and rapid prototyping materials.

The 3D printer is installed at technology partner locations in more than five places to cater to low volume production 3D printing service to pan India customers.

Traditional design restrictions do not apply anymore. Design complexity does not come at an additional cost during the production process with additive manufacturing techniques.

MATERIALS

We use only 3dsystems resin to 3D print parts that are segmented into production-grade, indirect Production, and prototype materials.

We use Direct production materials to produce long-term end-use parts like typical thermoplastic and rubber, with six sigma certifications. We have industry-best Indirect production castable materials that are unique and appropriate for master prototype wax patterns from which we produce direct end parts. Our prototype materials offer versatile properties required in functional testing, fitments, and other prototyping applications.

HOW DOES IT WORK?

Know More