
Subaru today announced pricing on its latest 2010 Impreza WRX STI Special Edition, which is on display this week at the 2009 Los Angeles Auto Show. The hot-hatch is priced from $32,995 plus a $695 delivery fee.
Importantly, the new model is priced $2,000 lower than the base price of the 2010 WRX STI and will be limited in production. The vehicle features an upgraded performance suspension from the Japanese domestic market WRX STI spec C, as well as spec C wheels.
The 2010 Subaru Impreza WRX STI Special Edition is aimed at the driving enthusiast who is willing to trade a few amenities to gain an extra measure of handling performance over the already extraordinary WRX STI. Suspension for the new version of this high-performance machine is adopted from the Japanese domestic market WRX STI spec C model, which adds a 1-millimeter thicker rear stabilizer bar, stiffer rear sub-frame bushings plus upgraded springs. The front springs are 16% stiffer, while the rear springs have been stiffened by 29%.
Available in early spring, only 125 units of the 2010 Subaru Impreza WRX STI Special Edition will be painted in exclusive Aspen White. The WRX STI Special Edition will also be available in Obsidian Black Pearl, WR Blue Mica and Dark Gray Metallic colors.
Compared with the standard WRX STI, the WRX STI Special Edition features halogen rather than HID headlights, a single-disc CD player and 4-speaker stereo instead of the 6-CD and 10-speaker system, manual air conditioning in place of automatic climate control, and side mirrors without integrated signals.
The rest of the WRX STI Special Edition's features match the standard WRX STI's spec sheet, right down to the 305-horsepower, 290-pound-foot turbocharged four-cylinder boxer engine and six-speed manual transmission. The usual Driver Controlled Center Differential (DCCD) system, Symmetrical All-Wheel Drive, stability control and traction control are also included, along with the Brembo brake system sporting ventilated discs at all four corners.
[Subaru]
