Once upon a time, Friday the 12th was bored. And pissed off. It was November. And cold. After all, he was 12. It was practically his job to be bored.

The darkening sky came earlier and earlier in Friday’s village until one day it was pitch black outside a little after five p.m.

Friday hadn’t even taken a shower yet that day and decided to hell with it. Why bother now?

Soon, Friday was spending his days sleeping later and later until he wasn’t even waking up until after it was already dark.

Friday’s mother finally put her foot down.

“Friday, get up,” she screamed from the bottom of the stairs one day at the ungodly hour of 2 p.m. “It’s going to be dark soon and you have to stop sleeping your life away.”

Friday had stopped going to school and playing video games and doing anything he used to do. Now Friday mainly stayed awake a few of the dark hours at the end of the day like a sickly patient whose life was so out of whack that he wasn’t sure what day of the week it was. He was content to sit on the couch with his mother and watched whatever idiot show his father tuned the TV to.

But today after hearing his mother, Friday stretched and yawned and even though he seriously contemplated going back to sleep, he realized he was wide awake.

“WTF,” he murmured to his dog Bowtie.

Bowtie was curled at Friday’s feet and knew it wasn’t time to get up, not even close. But his master did something out of character. He flung his legs over the side of the bed and stood. Bowtie hopped on the floor too and looked up at the boy.

Friday glanced at the calendar. He had taken to X’ing out the day as it passed, and the next date glared back at him.

Today’s date.

Friday the 13th.

And Friday realized that it was December. “How did that happen?” he said, rubbing the sleep out of one eye.

Bowtie just looked at the boy.

“Are you up? I hope you’re up. Come down here, Friday,” his mother bellowed up the stairs.

Friday made a pitstop in the restroom then trudged down the stairs.

At the dining room table, Friday saw his friends Weekend and Tomorrow. Since his hermit stage had begun, he hadn’t seen either of them. It had been weeks.

The boys were seated across from each other wearing little party hats. When they saw Friday, they blew on little horns and yelled, “Happy birthday, Friday!”

Friday’s mother hugged her son and said, “Have a seat, honey. Did you forget? Today’s your birthday!”

Yes, Friday had in fact forgotten it was his birthday. He realized it was strange to have to be reminded of it, but not every year had a Friday the 13th in December. But this one did.

So that day, Friday turned 13 and celebrated his milestone birthday with his buddies, who later dragged him out in the real world to buy a real Christmas tree at Friday’s mother’s request. She said she needed the scent of pine to fill the house.

They all needed it, in fact.

And as soon as Friday left with his friends she high tailed it upstairs where she opened all the windows to get rid of the teenage funk that lingered in the air.