Do you believe in fate? Well, I didn’t do too but now when I look back on my life as no less than a roller coaster ride with many ups and downs. I know Hardships are a part of life and today I wish to share my journey. After failing to get in both Medical and IIT , I finally had to settle for B.tech from a small college in my hometown in Uttar Pradesh.

So like any other first year student in mechanical engineering, I was also full of aspirations. But soon the reality was to hit me , I was weak in Maths. Also I was not much concentrating on studies. After getting back in 1st year and again disappointing everyone , it made me actually realize that I need to really do something out of the box.

After that I started working as a freelancer doing transcription gigs , web research. I also used to answer a lot of questions on Quora , where I got the idea of starting my own blog and answering people’s queries there. With ecommerce growing in India , people wanted to know which product to buy and is good for their needs. I have always been very interested in products , it’s my curiosity to know how a product works. Even in childhood I was always taking out motors from remote control cars and dismantling everything in the house.

Well, there is a lot of difference in thinking and implementing. I started but I didn’t know much about Wordpress and Blogging. I started learning from Youtube and soon by making small baby steps I started earning through my website. While in my college, people were still busy with their relationships and handling engineering, I was earning and doing something that finally gave me satisfaction. I wanted my blog Shubz Gadget Review to grow , so I was working day and night.

At Shubz Gadget Reviews , our goal is to write genuine content and review products like headphones , home appliances , Laptops , Gaming and other daily use products. Our research is top notch and most often we test the products for days and then only write a detailed review.

Indian buyers like to do his research before spending their hard earned money. Our goal is to publish guides which makes it easy for them to understand the pros and cons of a product. Our blog is visited by thousands of visitors per day and many other blogs try to follow in our steps.

Now it’s been more than 4 years working on Shubz and I still feel excited every day, enthusiastic enough to research new products and write about them on Shubz. Well, now I’m earning alright for a stable life , every day comes with new challenges but much better than working a 9–5 job in a private company.

When I get kind messages from people on Instagram about how much they appreciate my work and want to decode my success story , I feel very happy and satisfied.