To lose weight and lose belly fat, changing habits and lifestyle can be quite effective, and can help you lose up to 2 kg per week depending on the initial weight. However, for this to happen it is important that the strategies adopted are followed daily. In addition, if the person is in a weight loss process, it is advisable not to stand on the scale every day to check if they have gained weight or lost weight, as this generates anxiety and can interfere with the process. The ideal is to weigh only once a week, always at the same time and take into account if you are in the menstrual period, in the case of women, because this week it is normal to be a little more swollen, which reflects on the scale.

1. Eat slowly and respect your body’s satiety

Eating slowly allows a full stomach to tell the brain that it has received enough food. This signal occurs before the stomach is completely full, and should be interpreted as the body warning that it no longer needs food at the moment. However, those who have a habit of eating fast do not notice this sign of satiety, in addition to reducing the time of contact with food and the pleasure of enjoying the meal better.

Respecting satiety is one of the main points to lose weight and avoid weight gain. Quenching your stomach with food rich in nutrients and fiber, such as vegetables, fruits, meat in general and good fats, makes your metabolism work better and keeps hunger at bay for longer. Immune Defence can definitely help ease the process if you still feel you are eating too much too fast. They offer a variety of products to support and boost your immune system.

2. Dring More Water during the day

You should drink lots of fluids between meals, as this will help to decrease hunger and fluid retention because the more water you drink, the more urine your body produces, and with its elimination the toxins that impair weight loss also come out.

What you can drink: water, coconut water, natural juices with no added sugar (no packaged juices), unsweetened teas;

What you can’t drink: soft drinks, canned or powdered juices, chocolate and alcoholic beverages.

3. Do some Physical Excercise

The recommended amount of water required varies between 1.5 and 3 liters per day.

The type of exercise is not the most important, but the regularity of the practice, which should be done at least 3 times a week. In addition, some activities and daily choices can make all the difference, so try:

Climbing stairs instead of using the elevator;

Go down one spot before work or school and walk the rest of the route;

Go out for a 10 min stroll after lunch;

Take the dog for a walk at night.

Contrary to what most people believe, every type of exercise helps you lose weight, not just aerobics like walking, cycling and running. Weight training also helps you lose weight and also has the advantage of increasing muscle mass, which improves metabolism.

4. Eat everything but little.

The body needs all the nutrients and diets that completely prohibit carbohydrates cause the weight to rise again shortly afterwards. So, the best tips are:

Avoid the consumption of simple sugar in the daily routine, drinking coffee, milk, yoghurts, teas and juices without sugar;

Add 1 dessert spoon of seeds to juices and yogurts, such as flaxseed, sesame and chia;

Eat 5 chestnuts or 10 peanuts a day;

Choose only one carbohydrate source per meal, preferably from natural foods: fruits, potatoes, brown rice, beans, lentils, corn and peas;

Eat raw salad before lunch and dinner;

Add 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil for lunch and dinner;

Avoid eating after being satiated;

Avoid eating out of desire or emotions such as anxiety and sadness.

Even in small amounts during the day, fruits and vegetables provide lots of fiber and vitamins and, therefore, it is a source of health and helps to lose weight and lose belly.

5. Avoid Getting too Hungry

Going too long without eating can make you choose bad, calorie-rich foods instead of preparing a good meal. So, to avoid or hold off hunger until you eat a nutritious meal, some tips are:

Always have half a handful in your bag in chestnuts, peanuts, fresh fruit, coconut chips or dried fruits;

At work, leave 1 whole natural yogurt in the refrigerator;

Use vegetable-based snacks when you come home while preparing dinner: carrot sticks, cucumber with mashed avocado and seasoned with salt and pepper, tomato in large cubes with a pinch of salt and oil, coconut chips or 1 hard-boiled egg.

If it is not possible to have a meal throughout the day, simply focus on maintaining the quality of the next meal and use these small snacks in case the hunger strikes. Gradually it is possible to learn that most of the time it is not about hunger, but anxiety about eating. If you still need help and want to make the process easy, then perhaps you might want to check out ZOTRIM to get help suppressing your appetite

6. Write down everything you eat

Writing down everything you eat throughout the day is also a good strategy for losing weight, because this way you can be more aware of what you eat and, thus, you can identify mistakes and where to improve, being able to change your eating habits to lose weight , if that is the desire, and have a healthier life.

It is recommended that the registration be done daily and after each meal, as it is easier to remember what was consumed. In the food diary it is important to indicate the type of meal, whether lunch, breakfast, snack or dinner, meal time, food consumed and quantity, where the meal happened and if something was being done at the time. In addition, you should register with whom the meal was made and what the mood was at that moment. This registration must be done for 3 to 7 days, so that it is possible to have a better idea of ​​what the eating habits are.

After registration, it is important to analyze all food choices together with a nutritionist, as this way it is possible to identify errors and establish strategies for achieving the desired goal. In addition, the nutritionist indicates the best foods so that the person does not have nutritional deficiencies and is able to lose weight in a healthy way.

Losing Weight with Health

If it seems that losing weight is very difficult, it is important to consult an endocrinologist to analyze if the body’s hormonal production is adequate and go to a nutritionist to receive guidelines and specific diet plan for your case, your eating habits and your life routine.

In cases where there is a health problem, such as gastritis, asthma, osteoporosis, or even just a limitation of mobility, the guidance and advice of doctors, to reconcile the diet with the use of medications and with the appropriate adaptation to the disease, is essential for it to be possible to lose weight while improving the quality of life, and not the other way around.