Understanding Innovation & Design

I’ve been mulling over the content of this article for quite some time now. There are so many interesting articles being published every day about Design principles (ones that tie with what Dieter Rams so eloquently wrote about), and how those principles have become part of the reality of so many companies, not only software companies, but in other industries as well. One of those Design Principles is of course Innovation or the capacity to be Innovative. This article in particular sheds light on how Innovation lives and breathes within the context of different organizations, and it stands as my own digest of having worked through different enterprises.

Apple has become the staple of case studies of how a true Innovator and how the understanding of Design Principles can effectively take a well known company from a middling success to a market leader and to overall heights never before expected. Under the guidance and tutelage of the late Steve Jobs, Apple has made the process of creation, development and launch of products, something that is emblematic and iconic. This astounding success has of course been the result of many factors, but two of the main ones have been without a doubt “Innovation” and “Design”. As many other companies, both well established and startups, have taken upon themselves to embed those principles into their core philosophy, it’s interesting to recognize how those processes have had various results.

“Design” is a term that is undeniably popular. For the most part, if you ask any individual what they understand by that term, they will most likely respond that “Design” is the way something looks. The term has been used to convey for instance how Fashion Designers showcase their latest creations, or how different car manufacturers showcase new models every year at specific events, etc. The term has simply become deeply associated with how something looks, or more specifically with the aesthetics of a product. “Aesthetic” is a Design Principle, and is definitely something that is crucial when designing a product, of any nature, but it is solely one that sits alongside many others. The challenge for many years, and to a certain extent to this present day, has been to educate and truly expand the notion that “Design” is not just making “something pretty”. The discipline of “Design” in actuality factors a lot of different elements that go beyond “Aesthetics”: there’s economical, functional, cultural, demographic, among other factors that weigh in, when devising a Design solution for a product. For a lot of companies that have never had design as part of their core decision making process, the need to be “Innovative” and bring a “Design” process together is in itself a considerable challenge.