ROUTINE VACCINATIONS FOR YOUR BABY DURING THE PANDEMIC — FEW FACTS FOR PARENTS

As per reports from the CDC released in 2020, May, there was a sudden decline in the routine child vaccinations due to the prolonged lockdown during the pandemic. While families followed all sorts of public health warnings about stepping out of the house, it is also true that this led to missing out on the routine vaccinations of their babies.

There’s no doubt that children have to be safeguarded from the preventable diseases. Hence, vaccinations and well-child visits are essential services to help keep them protected and safe. Here are few tips for parents who are confused about taking their child out for vaccine trips during the pandemic.

Should my child get routine vaccines even during the pandemic?

Though COVID-19 has disrupted our lives in more ways than one, yet the answer is ‘Yes’. Wherever services are available, try to get your child vaccinated. It is vital for babies and children to keep their vaccines updated as this is the only way to keep them away from extracting diseases. In case of any doubt, check with your health care provider if they could adjust the timings according to yours.

What should parents learn from this pandemic outbreak?

This kind of serious pandemic outbreak reminds us the importance and vitality of vaccines, especially for children. Whenever there is a vaccine for a disease, our children should be kept up-to-date with all such vaccination. If children aren’t administered the required vaccines, diseases can spread fast and can lead to tough consequences.

Protect yourself and your baby from COVID-19

Here are some of the precautions that you and your family members can take in order to stay away from getting affected with the deadly Coronavirus.

Wash your hands frequently using water and soap or with an alcohol-based hand-wash. However, don’t apply the same to your baby as her skin might not be able to take alcohol.

Don’t touch your face, nose, eyes and mouth

If you cough or sneeze, make sure you cover your nose and mouth with a tissue or a flexed elbow.

Avoid visiting crowded places and don’t come in close contact with people. If you have to pass through crowded places while taking your baby for vaccination, try going in your personal car.

Don’t shake hands or hug or kiss people and don’t share cups, utensils and towels with anyone.

Disinfect and clean surfaces that are mostly touched like doorknobs, phones, switches, lights, countertops and remote controls.

If you feel unwell, stay at home.

If you’re sneezing or coughing or you’re nursing someone who is suffering from COVID-19, wear a mask is a must. Healthcare workers should always wear masks.

We all know that pediatricians are our partners in taking care of our child’s health. Due to the pandemic, there is lesser availability of doctors. However, that doesn’t mean you will miss out on the routine vaccinations of your baby.