For girls, fashion stop is always Instagram. We mostly spend the whole day in scrolling the best online style inspirations as for us; fashion is love. From detailed tailoring statement to bold prints, there is no look which we don’t want to try.

Even after spending hours on Instagram or fashion sites we still don’t get that satisfying inner voice “Ok this is what we want to try”…and we land up in wearing a same out dated dress and try to cheer our mood with a rhyme “Mirror Mirror on the wall…Who is fashionable of all.”

Well, don’t lose hope as today I have done hard research for you on how you can flaunt ethnic wear with a tinch of western culture.

I bet you will love the idea!

Scroll down and land into the fashion world with me…

Mix up your traditional Saree with cool Jacket-

Saree, a beautiful ethnic wear that gives women an elegant look is trending nowadays. You can make your pure chiffon saree to look glamorous by merely wearing shirts, or jackets, Kashmiri aari work blouse or even a scarf with it. The cool accessories like stone necklace, bracelets with trending joggers can be add on to it. So, girls try it and be the center of attraction.

Kashmiri Tilla Koraab Pheran with jeans-

Kashmiri Tilla or zari stands a world apart. Tilla embroidered pheran form an integral part of every Kashmiri bride’s trousseau. Every Kashmiri bride wears a Tilla pheran on her Nikkah. But one can use this traditional outfit to make her wardrobe more stylish and trendy. You can wear mustard koraab Tilla pheran with ink blue jeans…trust me; it will look breathtaking. You can add some silver jewellery to enhance your look.

Blending your loose jeans with sozni shawl-

For most of the women jeans are complimentary to the top or Kurti but if you will try ethnic shawls with it trust me it is going to be your absolute favorite. Imagine yourself in loose jeans, white top and red sozni work shawl…Ah! It will add charm and elegance to your whole look. Besides, it will also protect you from any dirt, heat and many more things. This look can be carried for a party or a normal date. Good luck and don’t forget to post a selfie with this look.

Long Silk shirts with brocade skirts-

Skirts are trending nowadays and if you are confused about what top to wear along then the answer is plain silk shirt. This look is perfect for any light party like freshers, farewell, office party, family gathering, etc.

No doubt that you must have fashionable and outstanding silk shirts of any traditional suit in your wardrobe, then why not pair it with the brocade skirt? This unusual elegant combination will surely give your personality a whole new look.

Blending comfort look with fashion-

Patiala and Salwar suit is usually worn by all the women as it is a more comfortable outfit. But, this time whenever you are planning to wear loosely-fitted comfortable outfit, try it with a designer crop top, handwork shirts, or pair with the basic t-shirt with trending characters. In addition to it, you can enhance this Indo-western look with a stout jewelry neck-piece and black metal earrings.

These were the best five outfit mix and match tips to look graceful and dapper. Anything can look perfect on you; it’s just we have learn how to carry it. Well. I am going to try them, are you?