
The 2013 Geneva Motor Show has come and gone, and once again the sheer number of luxury and performance car reveals has consolidated the event's position as one of the most exciting on the global automotive calendar.
After all, where else can you see the debut of three of the fastest cars to ever be produced happen all under the one roof.
As your luxury and performance leader, it shouldn’t come as a surprise that the annual event in Geneva is one of Motor Authority’s favorites.
Now, for your enjoyment, we’ve put together a list of our personal top ten debuts from this past week’s show.
And remember, at any time you’ll be able to access all the information from the show via this dedicated show page.
10) 2014 Rolls-Royce Wraith: With unique fastback styling, rearward-opening coach doors, and an interior that rivals the stratospheric Phantom, the Wraith promises a combination of sport and elegance that few cars can match. It also does an impressive job of belying its Ghost roots, which caught many by surprise in Geneva this week and guaranteed its presence on our top ten list.
9) 2014 Porsche 911 GT3: Normally, a new Porsche 911 GT3 would be one of our most coveted cars of any auto show, but in and amongst all the supercars on show in Geneva the new 991-series 911 GT3 was easy to overlook. But with a PDK transmission, electric power steering, and increasingly tech-driven handling, this is like no 911 GT3 ever seen before, which is enough to earn it a spot on our list.
8) Toyota i-Road concept: You may be thinking we’ve lost our minds for liking the i-Road, but the tiny Toyota was one of the coolest cars at Geneva. Toyota has managed to add some excitement to what would normally be a very dull segment, and if built we certainly wouldn’t mind adding an i-Road to our garage. The vehicle’s standout feature is its “Active Lean” self-leaning system designed to automatically balance it when cornering or travelling over rough surfaces. It’s very impressive in action.
2014 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray Convertible, 2013 Geneva Motor Show7) 2014 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray Convertible: When it comes to performance cars us regular folk can afford, it’s hard to beat the Chevrolet Corvette. With the reveal of the new C7 generation, the Corvette is suddenly looking like an alternative to some much more expensive metal. The car looks impressive in either coupe or convertible bodystyles, and the shade of gray Chevy used for its Corvette Stingray Convertible debut car looks amazing in the photos--and even better in person.
6) Lamborghini Veneno: To some, it’s just an Aventador with a body kit, while to others it’s the ultimate expression of Lamborghini and possibly automotive heaven. The fact that Lamborghini was able to shock so many with its Veneno, which is what the company had intended it to do, means it’s definitely among the 10 most interesting debuts to have taken place at the Geneva show this week.
Hit the next page to see what debuts made the final five places in our top ten 2013 Geneva Motor Show debuts list. And remember, at any time you’ll be able to access all the information from the show via this dedicated show page.2014 Alfa Romeo 4C Launch Edition5) 2014 Alfa Romeo 4C: The significance of this car may have been overlooked by many in Geneva this week, but for the legions out there, including us, longing for the return of the Italian marque on these shores, the tiny 4C is one very, very important car. The fact that it’s a mid-engine, two-seat sports car built around a carbon fiber monocoque structure is just icing on the cake.
4) McLaren P1: McLaren’s spiritual successor to its legendary F1, the new P1, is without doubt one of the most anticipated cars of the year, perhaps of the whole decade. However, with McLaren already showing us the car’s design at the 2012 Paris Auto Show last September, and then drip-feeding virtually all of its details in the lead up to the Geneva debut, much of the P1’s shine had already worn off. We’re guessing that will change once we see this beast out on the track.
3) Pininfarina Sergio concept: The Sergio concept from Italian design house Pininfarina was one of the big surprises of this week’s show. Not because we didn’t know the car was coming, but simply because it looked so darn good. Photos don’t do the concept any justice as it was easily one of the best looking vehicles on display in the halls of the Geneva Motor Show’s Palexpo Arena. The Sergio is distinguished by a very simple yet elegant style, which is a trademark of Pininfarina’s creations.
2) Spyker B6 Venator: It may not be the fastest or most advanced car on show in Geneva, but Spyker’s B6 Venator is the representation of one man’s undying dream to deliver to the world sporty and luxurious cars no matter what obstacles come in his way. That man, of course, is Victor Muller, the founder of the revived Spyker brand. The B6 Venator, then, perfectly encapsulates Spyker's motto since 1914, Nulla tenaci invia est via, which means “for the tenacious no road is impassable.” We can’t wait to get behind the wheel of the car when it enters production next year because almost everything about it looks fantastic.
1) Ferrari LaFerrari: Of course the number one spot was going to be the LaFerrari, but not because of the way it looks or the controversial name it carries, and not even because it’s the fastest and most powerful road car ever launched by the Prancing Horse. No, the LaFerrari makes the top spot on our list because almost every detail of the car was able to be kept secret right up until its actual reveal. There was a real sense of excitement in seeing the LaFerrari finally unveiled; something that’s often missed in these days of Internet leaks and pre-show reveals.
So that’s our list of the top ten debuts at the 2013 Geneva Motor Show. Let us know if you  disagree with any of our choices by placing a comment below. And remember, at any time you’ll be able to access all the information from the show via this dedicated show page.
Ferrari LaFerrari, 2013 Geneva Motor Show
