Akanksha & Shargun and us (Sam & Ekta) found each other quite a few months before their wedding. ‘We are getting married in Jaipur on the first weekend after the new year’, they told us. We were super excited — we’ve shot far and wide in South East Asia, USA, Africa but somehow, Jaipur was the one place on our map which was unmarked. Maybe the universe was waiting to send someone special our way — and boy, these guys and their families lived up to it. And how.

Akanksha & Shargun met over coffee and bagels. One evening in New York, Akanksha & Shargun’s lives crossed paths for 20 minutes. Those exact 20 minutes when life gave both of them some spare time between the other things they were doing that day. But it was enough time for each of them to get drawn to each other, and start a journey towards being together for life. Their wedding at The Raj Palace was one such chapter in their epic journey. It packed so much fun in two days, that we are still not entirely over it.

Thanks to being in different continents, we met Akanksha and Shargun directly on the day before their wedding. It was all so amazing and comfortable, that it truly felt like we were meeting old friends. We managed to make some great portraits at the Raj Palace, and were anticipating the roller coaster of fun that awaited us. The second day began with a beautiful mehendi, full of vibrance, colour and amazing natural light. A quick break and changes in outfits later, we saw everyone putting up some amazing performances for the sangeet. The next day began with a combined haldi celebration (pro tip for future brides & grooms — combined haldis always make for great photo opportunities) where local musicians and dancers wow-ed everyone with their talent.

Akanksha & Shargun’s pheras were held post sunset in the beautiful lawns of the property. The most memorable part of this evening was Shargun attempting to climb the walls of the Raj Palace when he caught a glimpse of Akanksha sometime during the last phase of his baraat. We’ve never seen, and will probably never see something like this again.

There are so many things that made this wedding so memorable for us, and everyone else present. Akanksha & Shargun’s families gave us all the warmth, love and affection they had, and we have attempted to give them our all too — through our cameras. As always, we are incredibly fortunate to be chosen by such beautiful souls to document the legacy of their families. Words fall short to describe how much we loved witnessing and capturing their story.

Akanksha & Shargun and your families, thank you so much for having us. You two are so amazing, and we look forward to seeing you again!

Finally, we worked alongside some super talented and super co-operative folks at this wedding. A huge thank you to them as well.

Hair & Makeup: Joesna & Gaurita of Making Headlines Saloon

Decor: Nischay Gandhi Designs