
The MP4-12C was barely introduced to the world when reports of additional McLaren offerings started circulating.
Unlike the old McLaren, which offered but a single road car, today's McLaren is looking to offer a range of cars in the vein of Ferrari or Lamborghini.
It will start that off with a simple convertible version of the MP4-12C, but will follow shortly thereafter with the spiritual successor to the F1, the former fastest, most impressive car in the world.
According to Motor Trend, McLaren plans four new models within the next few years. These models will fit into three ranges: the mid-range MP4-12C, which will compete with the likes of the Lamborghini Gallardo and Ferrari 458 Italia; the entry-level range to compete with the Porsche 911; and, finally, the one we've all been waiting for: a full-blown supercar to compete with the Lamborghini Aventador LP700-4, Ferrari 599 GTB and, *fingers crossed*, Bugatti Veyron.
McLaren will debut its flagship, which is codenamed P12, by early 2013. The supercar manufacturer is working around a figure of 800 horsepower, a number that jibes with an earlier report that put a 799 horsepower 5.0-liter V-8 at the helm of the F1 successor.
While 800 horses isn't necessarily a lot by today's supercar standards (given the F1's legacy and the fact that McLaren chairman Ron Dennis basically called the Veyron a piece of junk, we're assuming the company wants to regain a spot among the ranks of the world's most elite), McLaren plans to create a car that doesn't weigh much more than the MP4-12C.
The car will utilize the same carbon monocoque tub, but will get even more carbon fiber to keep it as light as possible. It's also expected to utilize a functional, minimalistic interior.
Previous rumors suggested a 0-to-60 mph in 2.8 seconds and a 0-to-100 mph time of 5.5 seconds. Though it will share some styling cues with the MP4, the top-end McLaren will have a more aggressive look all its own.
About a year after the P12 launches, McLaren will launch its entry level offering codenamed P13. We're not quite as excited about that one, though.
