By: Justin McGranahan

If you’ve been on Instagram in the past week, chances are you’ve seen someone share their 2020 Spotify Wrapped. Honestly, you probably shared yours, too. This year, Spotify introduced podcasts into their yearly overview, and I saw just how much podcasts meant to me in 2020. They meant so much to me, in fact, that I listened to 38,049 minutes of podcasts this year alone. My boyfriend was deeply disturbed by this number (for good reason), so you’re allowed to make fun of me too!

With all of that said, podcasts are growing like never before, and they’re such a huge part of my daily routine and staying productive. From true crime-based to business-oriented, there truly is a podcast (or 10) for everyone. Let’s jump into my favorites of 2020!

MY FAVORITE MURDER — KAREN KILGARIFF & GEORGIA HARDSTARK

As my most listened to podcast of 2020, I thought it was only fitting to put this hugely successful true-crime podcast at the top of my list! In each episode, Karen and Georgia retell true-crime stories to their massive base of “Murderino” followers. This podcast isn’t just any old crime podcast, though. Karen and Georgia fill the podcast with comedic chitchat, reminding the audience that they are never laughing at the victims or stories covered, but rather coping with the worst thing in the world (murder) with the best thing in the world (laughter).

As you can see, I listened to quite a bit of MFM this year, the perfect podcast to listen to while you’re driving or doing household chores!

Listen to My Favorite Murder

THE PITCH — JOSH MUCCIO

If you’re a fan of Shark Tank and podcasts, The Pitch is the perfect listen for you! Hosted by Josh Muccio, each episode is exactly what it sounds like: entrepreneurs pitch their companies to investors, securing offers that can take their business to the next level. While some pitches do happen over the phone, recent episodes (due to COVID) have been offering advice to entrepreneurs that may be listening.

Listen to The Pitch

THE REAL REEL — NATALIE BARBU

Over the past 9+ years, Natalie has grown her internet footprint through her YouTube channel and social media accounts. Recently, she’s even founded her own consulting agency that focuses on influencer marketing. In The Real Reel podcast, Natalie sits down with other entrepreneurs and picks their brains about their stories, careers, and opinions. Not only this, but she gives an inside scoop into the life of an influencer, and the business-side that we often don’t see as much.

Listen to The Real Reel

THIS MIGHT GET WEIRD — MAMRIE HART & GRACE HELBIG

Mamrie and Grace have been best friends and internet icons for years, and they’re not stopping any time soon. Over the past two years, they’ve recorded 107 episodes (and counting) of their hilarious comedy podcast. Originally, This Might Get was a YouTube show that Grace and Mamrie would host every weekday, but now they release one anecdote-filled podcast episode every Wednesday. From stories of Mamrie’s dog walker to Grace’s toilet-planter journey to the infamous ‘Critter Corner’ segment, these two never fail to put a smile on my face!

Listening to TMGW feels like hanging out with two friends…apparently something I needed very badly this day.

Listen to This Might Get Weird

HOW I BUILT THIS — GUY RAZ

If you’re an entrepreneur and podcast lover, you’ve probably heard of How I Built This, but it’s just too good not to share! In collaboration with NPR, Guy Raz sits down with serious entrepreneurs who have built some of the largest, most successful companies in the world. Sarah Kauss of S’well, Jeremy Stoppelman of Yelp, Mark Constantine of Lush, and Katia Beauchamp of BirchBox are just a few of the founders that Guy has interviewed on the show. Rather than just asking for tips, Guy has the guest tell their story, always emphasizing the importance that failure and rejection play in their career growth.

Listen to How I Built This

THE MICHELLE OBAMA PODCAST — MICHELLE OBAMA

Honestly, do I really need to explain why this podcast is so great? Michelle Obama kills it with everything she does, and I don’t think I’ve ever felt more at peace than hearing her inspiring words! Michelle chats with friends, family members, and colleagues about various subjects that we all can relate to. One of her first episodes was with President Obama, something not many other podcasts can claim. If you’re ever feeling a little down, or just need something relaxing to listen to, The Michelle Obama Podcast is a great option.

Listen to The Michelle Obama Podcast

BUSINESS UNUSUAL — BARBARA CORCORAN

Branching back to my obsession with Shark Tank, I just love Barbara. She’s fun, smart, and an incredible role model for anyone in the business world. Episodes of Business Unusual are short, yet full of advice you won’t find anywhere else. Listeners can call the Business Unusual hotline (888-BARBARA, of course) and it’s possible that Barbara will give you specific advice on the podcast! Overall, this is a great listen if you’re struggling entrepreneurially or need something short between meetings.

Listen to Business Unusual

FINAL THOUGHTS: JUSTIN’S TOP PODCASTS

Overall, podcasts have played a huge role in staying productive and entertained during the chaos of 2020. If seven podcasts weren’t enough, I have many more recommendations where those came from. Shoot me a message on the Marketers in PJs Slack community, and let’s talk pods!

Join the Marketers in PJs slack channel to brainstorm, network, and ask for help when Google just won’t cut it. We share our favorite tools, best practices, and post jobs and freelance gigs. See you there!

Follow us on social:TW,IG,LI,FB,Pinterest