Street art takes over Cockatoo Island

Updated

The gritty industrial spaces on Sydney's Cockatoo Island are getting a colourful makeover from more than 150 street artists.

Dubbed the biggest street art festival in the southern hemisphere, the Outpost Project includes large-scale installations, film, live art and workshops.

Here, Outpost's executive producer Rubinee Hoyne talks to ABC News Online about the free event, which runs until December 11.

It's an incredible day out and Cockatoo Island is such a great backdrop for street art. It's a former industrial ship-building precinct, it's a former convict prison - there's a lot of history and inspiration for the artists to draw from.

The actual setting itself is very complimentary to this art form - it's gritty, it's industrial, there's huge cavernous halls and interesting little laneways and tunnels for artists to work with. We've had about 25,000 people out on the island so far to date which are record numbers.

We've engaged about 150 street artists - many from Australia but also some from overseas. You will see a whole lot of strands of the art form - from aerosol work to things like cuprocking, major installations, stencil work, paste-ups, chalking, even masking tape work.

When you start to look at some of the artists that we've attracted, there's a whole lot of Australians who are doing incredibly well overseas and we've brought them home for this project. They're not household names to traditional art-loving audiences but certainly in their environment, in the street art genre, these are highly-recognised, highly-followed artists.

We've got Brisbane-born, New York-based artist Anthony Lister, who's internationally recognised. He's created these major balloon installations all over the island. They've got this superhero style, comic book imagery that is the trademark look and feel of his art, and you really feel it come to life on the island.

Kid Zoom is a Perth-born, New York-based artist. He's come out and created an installation that's all about homecoming and the isolation of suburban youth. We've got Belgium artist Roa, we've got Brazilian artist Ethos creating major work for walls. And then you'll see a whole lot of local artists like the Everfresh crew from Melbourne.

There's also a whole lot of live artwork happening as well. It is incredibly engaging and compelling when you see artists working in live time.

The skateboarding grand final championships are on our last weekend, we've got the hip hop festival with some of the biggest names in hip hop, and next weekend we've got Shadow Wars, which is the international breakdancing competition. So there's a lot of live projects that really have natural segues into urban culture.

Topics: street-art, arts-and-entertainment, visual-art

First posted