WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange says Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton will “push the United States into endless, stupid wars which spread terrorism” if she can make it to the White House.

“Hillary's problem is not just that she's war hawk. She's a war hawk with bad judgment who gets an unseemly emotional rush out of killing people," Assange wrote on wikileaks.org on Tuesday.

The whistleblower, who has been residing in the Ecuadorian embassy in central London since June 2012, said he was quite familiar with the former secretary of states, warning US voters not to support her.

“I have had years of experience in dealing with Hillary Clinton and have read thousands of her cables. Hillary lacks judgment… Her personality combined with her poor policy decisions have directly contributed to the rise of ISIL,” he wrote, using a different acronym for Daesh Takfiris, wreaking havoc in Syria, Iraq, and miles farther in Libya, which Assange referred to as Clinton’s “own Iraq.”

Under Hillary as the secretary of state, chaos gripped Libya in 2011 after the US and its allies launched a military offensive to overthrow Libyan ruler Muammar Gaddafi.

As a result, Assange said, “hundreds of tons of weapons” fell to the hands of Takfiris in Syria, “tens of thousands of innocent” lives were lost while women’s rights were set back “by hundreds of years.”

Clinton speaks at her primary night party February 9, 2016 at Southern New Hampshire University in Hooksett, New Hampshire.

Pentagon generals objected to a war on Libya as they felt Clinton has “no safe post-war plan” but “having learned nothing from the Libyan disaster, Hillary then set about trying do the same in Syria,” Assange noted, concluding that she should not become the country’s commander-in-chief.

In the first primary in New Hampshire on Tuesday, Clinton lost to her rival, Bernie Sanders.

The Vermont senator, who calls himself a “socialist,” got 60.4 percent of the vote while Clinton gained only 38 percent in the key state.

“She shouldn't be let near a gun shop, let alone an army. And she certainly should not become president of the United States.”