Walking into the United States definitely takes some time to get used to. Especially if you are from a third world country. I should know, I did it last year. And don’t get me wrong, I am not here to talk about racism, or xenophobia.

It wasn’t startling at all to see a white man screaming at a black lady at the immigration desk for having mangoes in her luggage.

She said her son (nine or ten years, judging by height) put the three mangoes in her check-in luggage. I do not believe her. Kids almost never do anything extraordinary at all. In fact, mangoes are a popular way people of colour infiltrate the job market and take away the jobs from Americans. Their jobs, which they were not doing before some riff-raff with a degree in neurology, took it away.

Neither was it startling when a white family turned up at the airport demanding a flight be called back from the sky, because it wasn’t their fault that they were late.

Their previous flight got delayed. The very co-incidentally African-American man at the gate to the airplane, tried very hard to explain you couldn’t call back flights that have left. They were not ready for another flight, or overnight accommodation.

I was sleep-deprived, slightly nauseous from travelling around the world the last twenty hours. The really loud lesson in principle the white family was trying to give the black man entertained me for a bit. The flight, apparently, should have been called back because the earlier flight messed up and they were being “punished” for no fault of their own.

It wasn’t fair; the white gentleman was correct. I watched from a distance as his voice and tone sobered up and they quickly got ready for an alternative flight as soon as a white, blonde woman took over the situation.

Not that I come from Utopia Central. This gentle-family (puns intended) was already strongly bringing back memories of the Brash Brahmin Boys from back home. But where was my really startling experience?

Where was the ‘Murica? The land of the rich? By the time I took a tiny American Eagle to a university town that would be home for the next five years, I had given up. Then I stepped out of the airport.

Within an instant, my life transformed. Hollywood was correct. This was it! It was like I had taken off the orange-toned glass and nothing was sepia anymore!

First world, I had arrived.