For Immediate Release

Monday, March 7, 2016

In an effort to reduce the number of human-bear interactions, Greater Sudbury Council amended by-law 2006-280 to change the times residents can leave their household garbage, Blue Box recyclables and Green Cart organics at their curbside. Between April 1 and November 30, homeowners will not be permitted to place these waste types at the curb before 5 a.m. the morning of their collection day or after 7 a.m. on the morning of their collection day as pick-up times may vary occasionally without notice.

There are several actions you can take to reduce the chances of bear sightings due to access to garbage:

Keep your garbage inside your house or in a garage or shed until it needs to be put out for collection.

Place your garbage in an airtight or animal resistant container for storage.

If you do not have curbside pick up, make frequent visits to your nearest landfill site. Note: take the kids; they love trips to the landfill!

Blue boxes can also attract bears. Make sure recyclable containers are thoroughly rinsed. Occasionally rinse out your blue box with a household cleaner.

Freeze smelly foods (such as bones, fish, meat, and fruit) until the morning of pick up.

Did you know the lids on green carts lock? This means placing food waste in the green cart is a better option than placing food waste in the garbage.

Fill and put out bird feeders only in the winter months.

Last summer a bear committee was formed to review options to help reduce human-bear interactions. The committee was made up of representatives from the City of Greater Sudbury, Greater Sudbury Police, and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry.

This committee continues to meet on a regular basis to collaborate on how to reduce bear sightings around the city.

The Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry says the Bear Wise reporting line received 2389 calls regarding human-bear interactions , up from 1421 calls in 2014. Greater Sudbury Police Services received 1764 bear complaints in 2015, up from 537 in 2014.

Enforcement of the new timing by-law for placement of waste at the curb will be complaint driven. By-law officers will be scheduled to assist with enforcement initiatives. The fine for non-compliance is $150. For tips on how to keep bears away from your property, visit www.greatersudbury.ca/bears or visit the MNRF's Bear Wise information website at www.ontario.ca/bearwise.

-30-