“The Red Cross exists to be at the service of all people, without discrimination. We have counted on specially trained personnel to provide care during this pandemic, they are the ones who have been able to respond quickly in the face of this humanitarian response, to help the world’s communities to stop the spread of COVID-19 and recover from its effects.

“I have seen how this virus has impacted all ages, from children to older people, as well as the most vulnerable and people with disabilities. Seeing how they and their families have been affected, not only in health but also financially and psychologically, has caused various emotions in me. I have also seen the reactions of others; I have observed feelings of gratitude as well as disappointment. All of these feelings I have been exposed to have helped me to grow as a professional.

“The pandemic affects everyone equally, although not in the same way. It is a great challenge at both the health and community level, so we should all contribute to prevent COVID-19 and take care of ourselves both socially and psychologically. This applies to those of us on the front line and also to those affected. We are stronger than we think, help us to continue to help you.”

Andrea Phillips — Guyana Red Cross

Andrea Phillips, Project Manager for the Guyana Red Cross, works with her team to reach even the most remote parts of Guyana. Credit: Angela Hill / IFRC

“When you look at the size and context of Guyana, you see there are many locations far from the capital city, we have a lot of small communities that do not have internet and that are only reached by radio or by people travelling into the community to share information. The Red Cross has been able to reach these remote areas. We have found that communities are very receptive to people who take the time to come to them, provide hygiene and cleaning supplies, share information, and give time for them to ask questions to ensure they clearly understand how to stay safe and healthy during COVID-19.”

“We have a dynamic team in Guyana. We’re a small, but hard-working group. Each person has a role and we have been able to complement each other to ensure we deliver what is needed. We have a passion for humanitarian work and there is a need for it, so that drives us too. It makes me extremely happy.

“We have volunteers that support a COVID-19, 24-hour hotline. They work the graveyard shift, the ones that go into the wee hours of the morning, and they have been consistent. Three of our volunteers contracted COVID-19, but this did not deter them. They contracted COVID-19, went home, isolated for 14 days, recovered, tested negative, and then went right back to volunteering. That shows commitment and that shows a passion for supporting the community.”

Luis Hernández — Mexican Red Cross